'
s
V
EISA
Encyclopedia Britannica.
Scripture continued from lafl Volume.
Senile. JEREMIAH was called to the prophetic office in the
* 55
Jeremiah.
JE] i   
13th year of the reign of Jofiah the fori of Amon
M- 3376> A- C. 628, an-3 continued to prophecy
upwards of 40 years, during the reigns of the degene¬
rate princes of Judah, to whom he boldly threatened
thofe marks of the divine vengeance which their rebelli¬
ous condufl drew on themfelves and their country. Af¬
ter the^ deftruftion of Jerufalem by the Chaldeans, he
was fuffered by Nebuchadnezzar to remain in the defb-
fate land of Judea to lament the calamities of his infatu¬
ated countrymen. He was afterwards, as he himfelf in¬
forms us, carried with his difciple Earuch into Egypt
by Johanan the fon of Kareah. 6 ^ ’
.It appears from leveral paflages that Jeremiah com-
mitted his prophecies to writing. In the 36th chapter
we. are informed, that the prophet was commanded to
write upon a roll all the prophecies which he had ut¬
tered and when the roll was deftroyed by Jehoiakim
the king, Jeremiah diftated the fame prophecies to Ba¬
ruch, who wrote them together with many additional
circumftances. The works of Jeremiah extend to the
iaft veife of the 31ft chapter ; in which we have thefe
words, “ Thus far the words of Jeremiah.” The 5 2d
chapter was thei-efore added by fome other xvriter. ~ It
is, however, a very important fupplement, as it illuftrates
the accompliffiment of Jeremiah’s prophecies refpecline
the fate of Zedekiah. ^
The prophecies of Jeremiah are not arranged in the
rangement th^ Were Slivered,
of his wri- occafioned this tranipofition cannot now be
determined. It is generally maintained, that if we eon-
iuit their dates, they ought to be thus placed :
In the reign of Jofiah the firft 12 chapters.
In the reign of Jehoiakim, chapters xiii. xx. xxi. v.
11, 14. ; xxii. xxiii. xxv. xxvi. xxxv. xxxvi. xlv xlix*
33-
In the reign of Zedekiah, chap. xxi. i-_x0. xxiv.
xxvii. xxxiv. xxxvii. xxxix. xlix. 34—39. 1. and jj.
^ Under the government of Gedaliah, chapters xl. xliv.
1'he prophecies wJiich related to the Gentiles were con-
Vol. XIX. Part I.
56
Chronolo¬
gical ar-
rangeme:.
of his wri
tings
tamed m the 46th and five following chapters, being Scripture,
placed at tne end, as in fome meafure unconnefled with ‘ • l
the rdf. But in forae copies of the Septuagint thefe fix
chapters follow immediately after the 13th verfe of the
25th chapter.
Jeremiah, though deficient neither in elegance nor
fublimity, muft give place in both to Ifaiah. Jerome
feems to objeft againft him a fort of rufticity of lan¬
guage, no veftige of which Dr Lowth was able to dif-
cover. His fentiments, it is true, are not always the
moft elevated, nor are his periods always neat and com-
pacl j but thefe are faults common to thole writers whole
principal aim is to excite the gentler affe&ions, and to
call forth the tear of fympathy or forrow. This obfer-
vation is very ftrengly exemplified in the Lamentations,
vvnere thele are the prevailing paffions j it is, however,
frequently inftanced in the prophecies of this author,
and moll of all in the beginning of the book (t), which
is. chiefly poetical. The middle of it is almoft entirely
In Iron cal. The latter part, again, confifting of the laft
fix chapters, is altogether poetical (mJj it contains fe-
veral difterent predidions, which are diftindly marked •
and in thefe the prophet approaches very near the fubli¬
mity of Ilaiah. On the whole, however, not above half
the book of Jeremiah is poetical.
The book of Lamentations, as we are informed in The book
the tiUe, was compofed by Jeremiah. We lhall prefent ■Lamefe*
to our reader an account of this elegiac poem from the tat*on5‘
elegant pen of Dr Lowth.
The Lamentations of Jeremiah (for the title is pro¬
perly and fignfficantly plural) confift of a number of
plaintive effufions, compofed on the plan of the funeral
dirges all on the fame, fubjea, and uttered without
connexion as they rofe in the mind, in a long courfe
of feparate ftanzas. Thefe have afterwards been put
together, and xormed into a colleaion or correfpondent
whole. If any reader, however, fhould expeft to find
m them an artificial and methodical arrangement of the
general fubjed, a regular difpofition of the parts, a per-
fed connedion and orderly fucceffion in the matter,
and
(l) See the whole of chap. ix. chap. xiv. 17, &c. xx. 14—18
exordium. P" ‘# ^ ^ "> *e Lamentatioor, to which it fervea as an
A
t
58
How di¬
vided.
SCR [2
Scripture. and with all this an uninterrupted feries of elegance
and corre&nefs, he will really expefl what was foreign
to the prophet’s defign. In the character of a mourn¬
er, he celebrates in plaintive ftrains the obftquies of his
ruined country : whatever prefented ilfelf to his mind
in the midft of defolation and mifery, whatever ftruck
him as particularly wretched and calamitous, whatever
the inftant fentiment of forrow dictated, he pours forth
in a kind of fpontaneous effufion. He frequently paufes,
and, as it tvere, ruminates upon the fame objeft ; fre¬
quently varies and illuftrates the fame thought with
different imagery, and a different choice of language;
fo that the whole bears rather the appearance of an ac¬
cumulation of correfponding fentiments, than an accu¬
rate and connedted feries of different ideas, arranged in
the form of a regular treatife. There is, however, no
wild incoherency in the poem } the tranfftions are eafy
and elegant.
The work is divided into five parts : in the firft, fe-
cond, and fourth chapters, the prophet addreffes the .
people in his own perfon, or introduces Jerufalem as
fpeaking. In the third chapter a chorus of the Jews
is reprefented. In the fifth the whole captive Jevts
pour forth their united complaints to Almighty God.
Each of thefe five parts is diftributed into 22 ftanzas,
according to the number of the letters of the alphabet.
In the fir ft three chapters thefe ftanzas confift of three
lines. In the firft four chapters the initial letter of
each period follows the order of the alphabet •, and
in the third chapter each verfe of the fame ftanza be¬
gins with the fame letter. In the fourth chapter all
the ftanzis are evidently diftichs, as alfo in the fifth,
which is not acroftic. The intention of the acroftic
was to affift the memory to retain lentences not much
conneffed. It deferves to be remarked, that ths verfes
of the firft four chapters are longer by almoft one half
than Hebrew verfes generally are : The length of them
feems to be on an average about 12 fyllables. The
prophet appears to have chofen this meafure as being
folemn and melancholy.
“ That the fubjeft of the Lamentations is the deftruc-
tion of the holy city and temple, the overthrow of the
ftate, the extermination of the people ; and that thefe
events are defcribed as actually accomplilhed, and not
in the ftyle of prediftion merely, muft be evident to
every reader 5 though fome authors of confiderable re¬
futation * have imagined this poem to have been com-
pofed on the death of King Jofiah. The prophet, in¬
deed, has fo copioufly, fo tenderly, and poetically, be¬
wailed the misfortunes of his country, that he feems
completely to have fulfilled the office and duty of a
mourner. In my opinion, there is not extant any poem
which difplays fuch a happy and fplendid feledtion of
imagery in fo concentrated a ftate. What can be more
elegant and poetical, than the defeription of that once
fiqurifhing city, lately chief among the nations, fitting
in the charafter of a female, foiitary, afRidted, in a ftate
of widowhood, deferted by her friends, betrayed by her
deareft connections, imploring relief, and feeking confo-
lation in vain ? What a beautiful perfonification is that
of “ the ways of Sion mourning becaufe none are come
to her folemn feafts ?” How tender and pathetic are the
following complaints ?
Chap. i. Is this nothing to all you who pafs along the way ? be-
12> 1<5- hold and fee,
Trtwih.
59
The fub-
jeil and
beauty of
yerome,
VJferius,
&c.
] SCR.
If there be any forrow, like unto my forrow, which is Scripture.
inflidted on me ; v ' '',l
Which Jehovah inflicted on me in the day of the vio¬
lence of his wuath.
For thefe things I weep, my eyes flream with water 5
Eecaufe the comforter is far away, that ftiould tranqui-
lize my foul:
My children are defolate, becaufe the enemy was ftrong.
But to detail its beauties would be to tranferibe the
entire poem.” 60
Ezekiel tvas carried to Babylon as a captive, and re- Ezekiel,
ceived the firft revelations from heaven, in the fifth year
of Jehoiakim’s captivity, A. C. 595. The book of
Ezekiel is fometimes diftributed under different heads.
In the three firft chapters the commiflion of the prophet
is defcribed. From the fourth to the thirty-fecond
chapter inclufive, the calamities that befel the enemies of
the Jews are predicted, viz. the Ammonites, the Moab¬
ites, and Philiftines. The ruin of Tyre and of Sidon,
and the fall of Egypt, are particularly foretold 5 prophe¬
cies which have been fulfilled in the moft literal and af-
toniftiing manner, as w’e have been often affured by
the relation of hiftorians and travellers. From the 3 2d
chapter to the 40th he inveighs againft the hypocrify
and murmuring fpirit of his countrymen, admoniihing
them to refignation by promifes of deliverance. In
the 38th and 39th chapters he undoubtedly predifts the
final return of the Jews from their difperfion in the lat¬
ter days, but in a language fo obfeure that it cannot be
underftood till the event take place. The nine laft
chapters of this book furnifh the defeription of a very
remarkable vifion of a new temple and city, of a new
religion and polity.
“ Ezekiel is much inferior to Jeremiah in elegance; Character
in fublimity he is not even excelled by Ifaiah : but his ^ a wri-
fublimity is of a totally different kind. He is deep,ter’
vehement, tragical 5 the only fenfation he affefls to ex¬
cite is the terrible ; his fentiments are elevated, fervid,
full of fire, indignant j his imagery is crouded, magni¬
ficent, terrific, fometimes almoft to difguft : his lan¬
guage is pompous, folemn, auftere, rough, and at times
unpolilhed: he employs frequent repetitions, not for
the fake of grace or elegance, but from the vehemence
of paflion and indignation. Whatever fubjeft he treats Lowti*
of, that he fedulouffy purfues, from that he rarely de¬
parts, but cleaves as it were to it; whence the connec¬
tion is in general evident and ■well preferved. In many
refpefls he is perhaps excelled by the other prophets 5
hut in that fpecies of compofition to which he feems
by nature adapted, the forcible, the impetuous, the
great and folemn, not one of the facred writers is fupe-
rior to him. His di&ion is fufficiently perfpicuous j all
his obfeurity confifts in the nature of the fubjefl. Vi¬
llons (as for inftance, among others, thofe of Hofea,
Amos, and Jeremiah') are neceffarily dark and confufed.
The greater part of Ezekiel, towards the middle of the
book efpecially, is poetical, whether we regard the mat¬
ter or the diction. His periods, however, are frequent¬
ly fo rude and incompadft, that I am often at a lofs
how to pronounce concerning his performance in this
refpeft.
“ Ifaiah, Jeremiah, and Ezekiel, as far as relates to
ftyle, may be faid to hold the fame rank among the He¬
brews, as Homer, Simonides, and JEfchylus among the
Greeks.”
So
6?
Character
of his pro¬
phecies.
S C It |
Scripture. So full an account of Daniel and his writings has
been already given under the article Daniel, that little
remains to be laid on that fubjeft. Daniel flourilhed
during the fucceflive reigns of feveral Babylonith and
Median kings to the conqueft of Babylon by Cyrus.
The events recotded in the 6th chapter were contempo¬
rary with Darius the Mede; but in the 7th and 8th
chapters Daniel returns to an earlier period, to relate the
Villons which he beheld in the three firfl years of Bel-
fhazzar’s reign ; and thofe which follow^ in the four laft
chapters were revealed to him in the reign of Darius.
The laft fix chapters are compofedof prophecies delivered
at different times; all of which are in fome degree con-
nefted as parts of one great fcheme. They extend
through many ages, and f'urnifh themoft ftriking delcrip-
tion of the fall of fucceflive kingdoms, wdiich w'ere to be
introduftory to the eftabliftnnent of ihe Meftiah’s reign.
They charafterrize in defcriptive terms the four great
monarchies of the world to be fucceeded by “ that king¬
dom which fhould not be deftroyed.”
The whole book of Daniel being no more than a
plain relation of fa£ts, partly part and partly future,
muft be excluded the clafs of poetical prophecy. Much
indeed of the parabolic imagery is introduced in that
book ; but the author introduces it as a prophet only j
as vifionary and allegorical fymbols of objedls and events,
totally untin£tured with the true poetical colouring.
The Jews, indeed, would refufe to Daniel even the cha-
rafter of a prophet: but the arguments under which
they {belter this opinion are very futile; for thofe
points which they maintain concerning the conditions
on which the gift of prophecy is imparted, the diffe¬
rent gradations, and the difcrimination between the true
prophecy and mere infpiration, are all trifling and ab-
(urd, without any foundation in the nature of things,
and totally deftitute of fcriptural authority. They add,
that Daniel wTas neither originally educated in the pro¬
phetic difcipline and precepts, nor afterwards lived con¬
formably to the manner of the prophets. It is not,
however, eafy to comprehend how this can diminifh his
claim, to a divine million and infpiration j it may poflibly
enable us, indeed, to aflign a reafon for the diflxmilarity
between the ftyle of Daniel and that of the other pro¬
phets, and for its poffeffing fo little of the di&ion and
charavrter of poetry, wrtiich the reft feem to have imbibed
in common from the fchools and difcipline in which they
wTere educated.
The prophecies of Daniel appear fo plain and intel-
thenticity. Jigible after their accomplifhment, that Porphyry, who
wrote in the 3d century, afhms, that they were written
after the events to which they refer took place. A
little refleflion will (how the abfurdity of this fuppo-
tion. Some of the prophecies of Daniel clearly refer to
Antiochus Epiphanes, with whole oppreffions the Jews
were too well acquainted. Had the book of Daniel
not made its appearance till after the death of Eniphanes,
every Jew who read it muft have difcovered the forgery.
And what motive could induce them to receive it among
their facred books ? It is impoflible- to conceive one.
Their character was quite the reverfe : their refpeft for
the Scripture had degenerated into fuperftit? m. But
we are not left to determine this imnortant point from
the chara&er of the jews ; we have accefs to more de¬
ceive evidence ; we are fare that the book of Daniel
contains prophecies, for fome of them have been accom-
. 64
Their au-
3 1 SCR
plilhed flnce the time of Porphyry; particularly thofe Scripture,
refpedling Antichrift : now, if it contains any prophe- —“v—
cies, who will take upon him to affirm that the divine
Spirit, which dictated thefe many centuries before they
were fulfilled, could not alio have delivered prophecies
concerning Antiochus Epiphanes ?
The language in which the book of Daniel is com-
poled proves that it was written about the time of the
Babylonilh captivity. Part of it is pure Hebrew: a lan*
guage in which none of the Jewilh books werecompofed
after the age of Epiphanes. Thefe are arguments to a
deift. To a Chriftian the internal marks of the book
itfelf will (how the time in which it was written, and
the teftimony of Ezekiel will prove Daniel to be at leaft *Eze^:.xiv’4
his contemporary*.
The twelve minor prophets were fo called, not from Twelve
any fuppofed inferiority in their writings, but on ac- minor pro¬
count of the fmall fize of their works. Perhaps it wras phets*
for this reafon that the Jews joined them together, and
confidered them as one volume. Thefe 12 prophets
prefented in fcattered hints a lively {ketch of many parti¬
culars relative to the hiitory of Judah and of Xfrael, as Gray’s Key
iveli as of other kingdoms 5 they prophefy with hiftori-
cal exaftnefs the fate of Babylon, of Nineveh, of Tyre, 7pJlamenh
of Sidon, and of Damafcus. The three laft prophets
elpecially illuftrate many circumftances at a period when
the hiftorical pages of Scripture are clofed, and when pro¬
fane writers are entirely wanting. At firft the Jewifh
prophets appeared only as Angle lights, and followed
each other in individual fucceffion \ but they became
more numerous about the time of the captivity. The
light of infpiration was collefled into one blaze, previous
to its fufpenfion} and it ferved to keep alive the expec¬
tations of the Jews during the awful interval which pre¬
vailed between the expiration of prophecy and its grand
completion on the advent of Chrift. 66
Hofea has been fuppofed the moft ancient of the 1 2 PropVdes
minor prophets. He flourifhed in the reign of Jero-Hoiea”
boam II. king of lifael, and during the fucceffive reigns
ot Uzziah, Jotham, Ahaz, and Hezekiah, kings of Ju¬
dah. He was therefore nearly contemporary with I-
faiah, Amos, and Jonah. The prophecies of Hofea be¬
ing fcattsred through the book without date or con¬
nexion, cannot with any certainty be chronologically
arranged.
Hofea is the firft in order of the minor praphets, and Charafler
is perhaps, Jonah excepted, the moft ancient of them°f|heir
all. His ftyle exhibits the appearance of very remote ltj C‘ <
antiquity ; it is pointed, energetic, and concife. It
hears a diftinguiflied mark of poetical compofition, in
that priftine brevity and condenfation which is obfer-
vable in the fentences, and which later writers have in
fome meafure negledled. This peculiarity has not efca-
ped the obfervation of Jerome: “ He is altogether (fays
he, fpeaking of this prophet) laconic and fententious.”
But this very circumftanee, which anciently was fup¬
pofed no doubt to impart uncommon force and elegance,
in the prefent ruinous ftate of the Hebrew literature is
produXive of fo much obfcurily, that although the ge¬
neral fubjeX of this writer be fufficiently obvious, he is
the moft difficult and perplexed of all the prophets.
There is, however, another reafon for the cbfcurity of
his ftyle : Hofea prcphefied during the rei?ns of the
four kings of Judah, Uzziah, Jothara, Ahaz, and Heze¬
kiah. The duration of his miniftry, therefore, in what-
A 2 ever
SCR [
, Scripture ever manner we calculate, muft include a very confider-
^ able fpace of time. We have now only a fmall volume
of his remaining, which feems to contain his principal
prophecies ; and thefe are extant in a continued feries,
with no marks of diitimflion as to the times in which
they were publilhed, or the fubjefts of which they treat.
There is, therefore, no caufe to wonder if, in perufing
the prophecies of Hofea, we fometimes find ourfelves in
a fimilar predicament with thofe who confulled the fcat-
tered leaves of the Sibyl.
As a ipecimen of Hofea’s ftyle, we feledl the follow¬
ing beautiful pathetic -paffage :
How (hall I refign thee, O Ephraim !
How fhall I deliver thee up, O Ifrael!
How (hall I refign thee as Admah!
How fhall I make thee as Zeboim !
My heart is changed within mej
I am warmed alfo with repentance towards thee.
I will not do according to the fervour of my wrath ;
I will not return to deftroy Ephraim :
For I am God, and not man j
Holy in the midft of thee, though I inhabit not thy ci tiesv
Prophecies Concerning the date of the prophecy of Joel there
of Joel. are various conjeftures. The book itfelf affords nothing
by which wTe can dilcover when the author lived, or
upon what occafion it was written. Joel fpeaks of a
great famine, and of mifchiefs that happened in confe-
quence of an inundation of locufts •, but nothing can be
gathered from fuch general obfervations to enable us to
fix the period of his prophecy. St Jerome thinks (and
it is the general opinion) that .Tael was contemporary
with Hofea. This is poffibly true \ but the founda¬
tion on which the opinion refts is very precarious, viz.
That when there is no proof of the time in which a
- prophet lived, we are to be guided in our conjesftures
refpe&ing it by that of the preceding prophet whofe
epoch is better known. As this rule is not infallible, it
therefore ought not to hinder us from adopting any
other opinion that comes recommended by good rea-
fons. Father Calmet places him under the reign of
Jofiah, at the fame time writh Jeremiah, and thinks it
probable that the famine to which Joel alludes, is the
ijp fame with that which Jeremiah predidled, ch. viii. 13.
Charadter The ftyle of Joel is effentially different from that of
of their Hofea ; but the general character of his didlion, though
of a different kind, is not lefs poetical. He is elegant,
perfpicuous, copious, and fluent; he is alfo fublime, ani¬
mated, and energetic. In the firft and fecond chapters
Loivth he difplays the full force of the prophetic poetry, and
0poetr >eriV ^ows h°w naturally it inclines to the ufe of metaphors
Sea. 21. allegories, and comparifons. Nor is the connexion of
the matter lefs clear and evident than the complexion
of the flyle : this is exemplified in the difplay of the
impending evils which gave rife to the prophecy , the
exhortation to repentance ; the promifes of happinefs
and fuccefs both terreflrial and eternal to thofe who be¬
come truly penitent*, the reftoration of the Ifraelites;
and the vengeance to be taken of their adverfaries. But
while we allow this juft commendation to his perfpi-
cuity both in language and arrangement, we muft not
deny that there is fometimes great obfcurity obfervable
in his fubjett, and particularly in the latter part of the
prophecy.
* ] SCR
I he following prophecy of a plague of locufts is de- Scripture,
fcribed with great fublimity of exprelfion : •~~v—
For a nation hath gone up on my land,
Who are ftrong, and without number :
They have deftroyed my vine, and have made my fig-
tree a broken branch.
They have made it quite bare, and cafl it away : the
branches thereof are made white.
The field is laid wafte : the ground mourneth *. * Joel i. 6.
& 7, io, See.
Amos was contemporary with Hofea. They both „ j’0 .
began to prophecy during the reigns of Uzziah over of Am^'63
Judah, and of Jeroboam II. over Ifrael. Amos faw
bis firft vifion two years before the earthquake, wdiich
Zechariah informs us happened in the days of Uzziah.
See Amos.
Amos was a herdfman of Tekoa, a fmall town in the
territory ot Judah, and a gatherer of fycamore fruit.
In the fimplicity of former times, and in the happy cli¬
mates of the Eaft, thefe were not confidered as dilho-
n our able occupations. He was no prophet (as he in¬
formed Arnaziah j-), neither was he a prophet’s fon, . ^nios ^
that is, he had no regular education in the fchools of j4. m°S
the prophets.
The prophecies of Amos confift of feveral diftinft
difeourfes, which chiefly refpedl the kingdom of Ifrael;
yet fometimes the prophet inveighs againft Judah, and
threatens the adjacent nations, the Syrians, Philiftines,
Tyrians, Edomites, Ammonites, and Moabites.
Jerome calls Amos “ rude in fpeech, but not in j
knowledge J j” applying to him what St Paul modeftly j PrleJ.*'
profeffes of himfelfj. “ Many (fays Dr Lowth) have Comment.
followed the authority of Jerome in fpeaking of thisin Amos'
prophet, as if he were indeed quite rude, ineloquent, $ 4 Cor‘XI*
and deftitute of all the embellilhments of compofition.<>"
The matter is, however, far otherwife. Let any perfon
who has candour and perfpicacity enough to judge, not
from the man but from his writings, open the volume
of his predi&ions, and he will, I think, agree with me,
that our Ihepherd ‘ is not a whit behind the very chief
of the prophets j|.’ He will agree, that as in fublimity y 2 Cor.
mid magnificence he is almoft equal to the greateft, fo
in fplendour of di&ion and elegance of expreflion he is
fcarcely inferior to any. The fame celeftial Spirit in¬
deed aftuated Ifaiah and Daniel in the court and Amos
in the ftieep-folds; conftantly felefling fuch interpreters
of the divine will as were bell adapted to the occafion,
and fometimes ‘ from the mouth of babes and fucklings
perfefting praife occafionally employing the natural
eloquence of fbrne, and occafionally making others elo¬
quent.”
Mr Locke has obferved, that the comparifons of this
prophet are chiefly drawn from lions and other animals
with which he was moft accuftomed j but the fineft
images and allufions are drawn from feenes of nature.
There are many beautiful paffages in the writings of A-
mos, of which we ftiall prefent one fpecimen :
Wo to trhem that are at eafe in Zion,
And trull in the mountains of Samaria}
Who are named chief of the nations,
To whom the houfe of Ifrael came ;
Pafs ye unto Calneh and fee,
And from thence gp to Hamath the Great j
Then
S C R
, Then go down to Gath of the Phillftines;
Are they better than thefe kingdoms ?
Or their borders greater than their borders ?
Ye that put far away the evil day,
And caufe the feat of violence to come near j
That lie upon beds of ivory,
And flretch yourfelves upon couches;
1 hat eat the lambs out of the flock,
And the calves out of the midft of the flail 3
i hat chant to the found of the viol,
And like David devife inftruments of mufic 3
That drink wine in bowls,
And anoint yourfelves with chief ointments 3
Bui are not grieved for the affliBion of Jofeph |[,
H Ch. vi. 1.
—5.
72
Of Obadiah
73
OfJonah
* 2 Kings
xiv. 25.
Matth. xii.
39. 41. xvi
4-
Luke xi. 29
, 74
Of Micah.
f Jer. xxv.
1S—-24.
XJofAnt.
lib. x. c. 7.
Micah iii.
12.
|| Matt. ii.
5. John vii.
42.
. . 75
His ft vie
i he writings of Obadiah, which confift of one chap¬
ter, are compofed with much beauty, and unfold a very
interefting fcene of prophecy. Of this prophet little
can be faid, as the fpecimen of his genius is fo fliort
and the greater part of it included in one of the pro¬
phecies of Jeremiah. Compare Ob. 1—9. with Jer.
xlix. 14, 15, 16. See Obadiah.
- Though Jonah be placed the fixth in the order of
the minor prophets both in the Hebrew and Septua-
gint, he is generally confidered as the moft ancient of
all the prophets, not excepting Hofea. He lived in
the kingdom of Ifrael, and prophefied to the ten tribes
under the reign of Joalh and Jeroboam. The book of
Jonah is chiefly hiftorical, and contains nothing of poe¬
try but the prayer of the prophet. L'he facred writers,
and our Lord himfelf, fpeak of Jonah as a prophet
of confiderable eminence *. See Jonah.
Micah began to prophefy foon after Ifaiah, Hofea,
Joel, and Amos 3 and he prophefied between A. M.
3246, when Jotham began to reign, and A. M- 3305,
.when Hezekiah died. One of his prediflions is faid-J
to have fayed the life of Jeremiah, who under the remn
of Jehoiakim would have been put to death for prophe-
fying the deftru&ion of the temple, had it not appeared
that Micah had foretold the fame thing under Heze¬
kiah above 100 years before f. Micah is mentioned
as a prophet in the book of Jeremiah and in the New
Teftament ||. He is imitated by fucceeding prophets (n),
as he himfelf had borrowed expreflions from his prede-
ceffors (o). Our Saviour himfelf fpoke in the language
of this prophet (p). &
. Tlle of Micah is for the moft part clofe, for¬
cible, pointed, and concife 3 fometimes approaching the
obfcurity of Hofea 3 in many parts animated and fub-
lime 3 and in general truly poetical. In his prophecies
there is an elegant poem, which Dr Lowth thinks is a
citation from the anfwer of Balaam to the king of the
Moabites :
Wherewith fliall I come before Jehovah ?
Wherewith fliall I bow myfelf unto the High God ?
Shall I come before him with burnt-offerings,
With calves of a year old ?
Will Jehovah be pleafed with thoufands of rams ?
With ten thoufands of rivers of oil -•?
5 ] SCR
Shall I give my /irfi-bom for my tranrgreiTion f Scripture,
The fruit of my body for the fin of my foul ? ' 
He hath ftiowed thee, O man, what is’good :
And what doth Jehovah require of thee,
But to do juftice, and to love mercy,
And to be humble in walking with thy God ?
Jofephus afferts, that Nahum lived in the time of Jo- Of Nahum,
loam king of Judah 3 in which cafe he may be fuppofed
to have prophefied againft Nineveh when Tiglath-Pilefer
king of Affyria carried captive the natives of Galilee and
other parts about A. M. 3264- It is, however, pro¬
bable, that his prophecies were delivered in the reivn
Hezekiah 3 for he appears to fpeak of the taking of
No-Ammon a city of Egypt, and of the infolent mef-
fengers of Sennacherib, as of things paft 3 and he like-
wife defcribes the people of Judah as ftill in then-
own country, and defirous of celebrating their fefti-
vals.
While Jerufalem was threatened by Sennacherib, Na¬
hum promifed deliverance to Hezekiah, and prediHed
that Judah would loon celebrate her folemn feafts fecure
from invafion, as her enemy would no more difturb her
peace. In the fecond and third chapters Nahum fore-
tels the downfal of the Affyrian empire and the final
deftruaion of Nineveh, which was probably accomplfth-
ed by the Medes and Babylonians, wdrofe combined
forces overpowered the Affyrians by furprife “ while
they were folden together as thorns, and while they
were diunken as drunkards,” when the gates of the ri¬
ver were opened, the palace demoliftred, and an “ over¬
running flood” aflifted the conquerors in their devafta-
tion ; who took an endlefs ftore of fpoil of gold and
filver, making an utter end of the place of Nineveh, of
that vart and populous city, whofe walls were 100 feet
high, and fo broad that three chariots could pafs abreaft.
Yet lo completely was this celebrated city deftroyed,
that even in the 2d century the fpot on which it flood
could not be afcertained, every veftige of it beino-
gone. &
It is impoflible to read of tire exaff accomplilhment
of the prophetic denunciations againft the enemies of
the Jews, without reflecfting on the aftoniftiing proofs
which that nation enjoyed of the divine origin of their
rehgion From the Babyloniflr captivity to The time of
Thrift they had numberlefs inftances of the fulfilment of
their prophecies.
The charafter of Nahum as a writer is thus defcribed
by 1 ^ None the minor prophets feem to
equal Nahum in boldnefs, ardour, and fublimity. His
prophecy, too, forms a regular and perfeft poem 3 the
exordium is not merely magnificent, it is truly mai'eftic-
the preparation for the deftruaion of Nineveh, and the
delcription of its downfal and defolation, are expreffed
l" ^5 ,vivid colours, and are bold and luminous in
the higheft degree.”
a ^S-tbe ProP^et Habakkuk makes no mention of the of h/k v
Affynans and fpeaks of the Chaldean invafions as nearkuk '
at hand, he probably lived after the deftruaion of the
Affyrian
(tO Compare Zephan. id. 19. with Micah. iv. 7. and Ezek. xxii. 27. with Micah iii. 11.
( ) Compare Micah. iv. 1—3. and Ifaiah ii. 2—4. Micah iv. 13. with Ifaiah xli. 1 c
(p) Compare Micah vm. 6. .with Matt. x. 35, 36. 5
Scripture.
j] Heb. x.
37. 3s:
Rom. i- 17-
Gal. 11!. 2.
Adb-xiii.
41. com¬
pare with
Hab. i. 5.
7s _
Prophecies
of Zepha-
niah.
SCR [6
Afiyrian empire in the fall of Nineveh A. M. 3392>
and not long before the devaftation of Judea by Nebu¬
chadnezzar. Habakkuk was then neatly contempora¬
ry with Jeremiah, and predicated the fame events. A
general account of Habakkuk’s prophecies has already
been given under the word Habakkuk, which may be
confulted. We fhould, however, farther obferve, that
the prayer in the third chapter is a molt beautiful and
perfect ode, poffefllng all the fire of poetry and the pro¬
found reverence of religion.
God came from Teman,
And the Holy One from Mount Paran :
His glory covered the heavens,
And the earth was full of his praife.
His brightnefs was as the light;
Beams of glory iffued from his fide $
And there was the hiding of his power.
Before him went the peftilence •,
And burning coals went forth at his feet.
He ftood and meafured the earth j
He beheld and drove afunder the nations *,
The everlafting mountains were fcattered j
The perpetual hills did bowk
The prophet illuftrates this fubjeft throughout with
equal fublimity fele&ing from fuch an aflemblage of
miraculous incidents the moft noble and important, dif-
playing them in the moft fplendid colours, and embel-
lifhing them with the fublimeft imagery, figures, and
diftion ; the dignity of which is fo heightened and re¬
commended by the fuperior elegance of the conclufion,
that were it not for a few fliades which the hand of
time has apparently call over it in two or three paffa-
ges, no compofiiion of the kind would appear more
elegant or more perfeft than this poem.
Habakkuk is imitated by fucceeding prophets, and
his words are borrowed by the evangelical writers ||.
Zephaniah, who was contemporary with Jeremiah,
prophefied in the reign of Jofiah king of Judah ; and
from the idolatry which he defcribes as prevailing at
that time, it is probable that his prophecies were deli¬
vered before the laft reformation made by that pious
prince A. M. 3381.
The account which Zephaniah and Jeremiah give of
the idolatries of their age is fo fimilar, that St Ifiodore
aOferts, that Zephaniah abridged the defcriptions of Je¬
remiah. But it is more probable that the nrophecies
of Zephaniah were wife ten fome years before thofe of
his contemporary 5 for Jeremiah feems to reprefent the
abufes as partly removed which Zephaniah defcribes as
flagrant and exceffive (o).
In the firft chapter Zephaniah denounces the wrath
of God againft the idolaters who worshipped Baal and
the hoft of heaven, and againft the violent and deceitful.
In the fecond chanter the prophet threatens deftruc-
tion to the Philiftines, the Moabites, the Ammonites,
and Elhi/ plans •, and defcribes the fate of Nineveh in
emphatic terms: “ Flocks fhall lie down in the midft
of her *, all the beafts of the nations, both the cormo¬
rant and bittern, fhall lodge in her ; their voice fhall
,nng in the windows j defolation fhall be in the threfli-
] SCR
olds.” In the third chapter the prophet inveigns Scripture,
againft the pollutions and oppreflions of the Jews j and
concludes with the promife, “ That a remnant would
be faved, and that multiplied bleflings would be bellow¬
ed upon the penitent.” The ftyle of Zephaniah is poe¬
tical, but is not diftingulihed by any peculiar ele¬
gance or beauty, though generally animated and im-
preftive. ^
Haggai, the tenth of the minor prophets, was theofHaggan
firft who flourifhed among the Jews after the Babylo-
nifh captivity. He began to prophefy in the fecond
year of Darius Hyftafpes, about 520 years before
Chrift.
The intention of the prophecy of Haggai was to en¬
courage the difpirited Jews to proceed with the build¬
ing of the temple. The only prediction mentioned re*,
fers to the Meftiah, whom the prophet affures his coun¬
trymen would fill the new temple with glory. So well
was this prediction underftood by the Jews, that they
looked with earneft expectation for the Mefliah’s ap¬
pealing in this temple till it was deftroyed by the Ro¬
mans. But as the victorious Mefliah, whom they ex-
peCted, did not then appear, they have fince applied the
prophecy to a third temple, which they hope to fee
reared in fome future period.
The ftyle of Haggai, in the opinion of Dr Lowth,
is profaic. Dr Newcome, on the contrary, thinks that a
great part of it is poetical. g0
Zechariah was undoubtedly a contemporary of Hag-o Zedia*
gai, and began to prophefy two months after him, in uah.'
the eighth menth of the fecond year of Darius Hyf¬
tafpes, A. M. 3484, being commiflioned as well as
Haggai to exhort the Jews to proceed in the building
of the temple after the interruption which the work
had fuffered. We are informed by Ezra (vi. 14.),
that the Jews profpered through the prophefying of
Zechariah and Haggai.
Zechariah begins with general exhortations to his
countrymen, exciting them to repent from the evil
ways of their fathers, whom the prophets had admo-
niihed in vain. He defcribes angels of the Lord inter¬
ceding for mercy on Jerufalem and the defolate cities of
Judah, which had experienced the indignation of the
Moft High for 70 years, while the neighbouring nations
were at peace. He declares, that the houfe of the
Lord ftiould be built in Jerufalem, and that Zion ftiould
be comforted. The prophet then reprefents the in-
creafe and profperity of the Jews under feveral typical
figures. He defcribes the eftablifhment of the Jewifh
government and the coming of the Mefliah. He ad-
monilhes thofe who obferved folemn fafts without due
contrition, to execute juftice, mercy, and compaflion,
every man to his brother •, not to opprefs the widow
nor the fatherlefs, the ftranger nor the poor. He pro-,
mifes, that God would again (how favour to Jerufalem ;
that their mournful fafts Ihould be turned into cheerful
feafts; and that the church of the Lord ftiould be en¬
larged by the acceffion of many nations.
The 12th verfe of the nth chapter of this book,
which exhibits a prophetic defeription of fome circum-
ftances afterwards fulfilled in our Saviour, appears to
be
(q_) Compare Zephaniah i. 4, 5, 9. with Jeremiah ii. 5, 20, 32,
4
SCR [
Scripture, be eked by St Matthew (xx'vii. 9, 10.) as fpoken by
^ Jeremiah; and as the lith, 12th, and 13th chapters
have been thought to contain fome particulars more
fuiiable to the age of Jeremiah than to that of Zecha-
riah, fome learned writers are of opinion that they were
written by the former prophet, and have been from fi-
milarity of fubjeft joined by miftake to thofe of Zecha-
riah. Eut others are of opinion, that St Matthew might
allude to fome traditional prophecy of Jeremiah, or,
what is more probable, that the name of Jeremiah was
fubftituted by midake in place of Zechariah.
The 12th, 13th, and 14th chapters contain prophe¬
cies which reter entirely to the Chriilian difpenfation ;
the circumftances attending which he deferibes with a
clearnefs which indicated their near approach,
The llyle of Zechariah is fo fimilar to that of Jere¬
miah, that the Jews were accuftomed to remark that
the fpirit of Jeremiah had paffed into him. He is ge¬
nerally profaic till towards the conclufion of his work,
when he becomes more elevated and poetical. The
whole is beautifully conneffed by eafy tranfitions, and
prefent and future feenes are blended with the greateft
St ' delicacy.
Of Malachi. Malachi was the laft prophet that flourifhed under the
Jewilh difpenfation; but neither the time in which he
lived, nor any particulars of his hiftory, can now be af-
certained. It is even uncertain whether the word Ma-
lachi be a proper name, or denote, as the Septuagint
have rendered k, his angel (r), that is, “ the angel of
the Lord.” Origen fuppofed, that Malachi was an an¬
gel incarnate, and not a man. The ancient Hebrews,
the Chaldee paraphraft, and St Jerome, are of opinion
he was the fame perfon with Ezra : but if this was the
cafe, they ought to have afligned fome reafon for giving
two different names to the fame perfon.
As it appears from the concurring teftimony of all
the ancient Jewifli and Chrilxian writers, that the light
of prophecy expired in Malachi, we may fuppofe that
the termination of his miniftry coincided with the ac-
complilhment of the firft feven weeks of Daniel’s pro¬
phecy, which was the period appointed for fealing the
vifion and prophecy. This, according to Prideaux’s
account, took place in A. M. 3595 ; but, according to
the calculations of Bilhop Lloyd, to A. M. 3607, twelve
years later. Whatever reckoning we prefer, it muff
be allowed that Malachi completed the canon of the
Old Teffament about 400 years before the birth of
vChrift.
It appears certain that Malachi prophefied utider
Nehemiah, and after Haggai and Zechariah, at a time
when great diforders reigned among the priefts and
people of Judah, which are reproved by Malachi. He
inveighs againft the priefts (i. 6, &c. ii. 1, 2, &c.) ;
he reproaches the people with having taken ftrange wives
(ii. 11.); he reproves them for their inhumanity to¬
wards their brethren (ii. 10. iii. 5.) ; their too frequent¬
ly divorcing their wives; their negledl of paying their
tithes and firft-fruits (Mai. iii. 13.). He feems to al-
jude to the covenant that Nehemiah renewed with the
Lord (iii. 10. and ii. 4, 5, &c.), aflifted by the priefts
end the chief of the nation. He fpeaks of the facrifice
7 ] SCR
of the new law, and of the abolition of thofe of the old, Scripture,
in thefe words (i. 10, 11, 12, 13.) : “ I have no plea- ' v—
fure in you, faith the Lord of hofts, neither will I ac¬
cept an oifering at your hand. For from the riling of
the fun, even unto the going down of the fame, my
name (hall be great among the Gentiles, and in every
place incenfe lhall be offered unto my name, and a pure
offering : for my name lhall be great among the Hea¬
then, faith the Lord of hofts.” He declares that the
Lord was weary with the impiety of Ifrael ; and affures
them, that the Lord whom they fought flioul4 fuddenly
come to his temple preceded by the meflenger of the
covenant, who was to prepare his -way ; that the Lord
when he appeared Ihould purify the Ions of Levi from
their unrighteoufnefs, and refine them as metal from the
drofs ; and that then the offering of Judah, the fpiritual
facrifice of the heart, Ihould be pleafant to the Lord,
lire prophet, like one who was delivering a laft mef-
faget denounces deftruftion againft the impenitent in
emphatic and alarming words. He encourages thofe
who feared the name of the Lord with the animating
promile, that the “ Sun of righteoufnefs Ihould arife
with falvation in his rays,” and render them triumphant
over the wicked. And now that prophecy was to ceafe,
and miracles were no more to be performed till the com¬
ing of the Meffiah ; now7 that the Jews were to be left
to the guidance of their own reafon, and the written in-
ftruflions of their prophets—.Malachi exhorts them to
remember the law of Mofes, which the I„ord had re¬
vealed from Horeb for the fake of all Ifrael. At length
he feals up the prophecies of the Old Teftament, by
predifting the commencement of the new difpenfation,
which Ihould be ufhered in by John the Baptift with the
power and fpirit of Elijah ; who Ihould turn the hearts
of fathers and children to repentance ; but if his admo¬
nitions ftiould be rejedled, that the Lord would finite
the land with a curfe.
The colle&ion of writings compofed aftef the afcen-NEwTES-
fion of Chrift, and acknowledged by his followers to be tament.
divine, is known in general by the name of xxivti hufaxy.
This title, though neither given by divine command, T^Je
nor applied to thefe writings by the apoftles, was adopt- 1 f
ed in a very early age, though the precife time of its in¬
troduction is uncertain, it being juftified by feveral paf-
fages in Scripture f, and warranted by the authority off Mattb.
St Paul in particular, who calls the facred books before KXV1, 2^-
the time of Chrift vcthctix dtxfaxn J. Even long before GaL ui:.17'
that period, either the whole of the Old Teftament, or Heb‘Vli^
the five books of Mofes, were entitled/3A<e> "q’ '^
or book of the covenant §. j 2 cor.
As the word haSnxn admits of a two-fold interpreta- § 1 u
lion, we may tranflate this title either the New Cove- S7'
riant or Nexv Tejlament. The former tranflation muft
be adopted, if refpeft be had to the texts of Scripture,
fi om which the name is borrowed, fince thofe paffages
evidently convey the idea of a covenant; and, befides,
a being incapable of death can neither have made an
old nor make a new teftament. It is likewife probable,
that the earheft Greek difciples, who made ufe of this
expreffion, had no other notion in view than that of co¬
venant
(r) 'sxbD Malachi fignifies properly my angel.
SCR
t 3
Scripture, vehant. We, on the contrary, are accuAomed to give
l*-‘ v this facred colleftion the name of Tcjlamcnt; and fince
it would be not only improper, but even abfurd, to fpeak
of the Tefl ament of God, we commonly underhand the
Teflament of Chrift ; an explanation which removes but
half the difficulty, fince the new only, and not the old,
had Chrift for its teftator.
Importance In ftating the evidence for the truth of Chriftianity,
of the argu- there is nothing more worthy of confideration than the
th^a tit fen authenticity of the books of the New Teftament. This
ticity of the ^e foundation on which all other arguments reft 5
books. and if it is folid, the Chriftian religion is fully eftablifb-
ed. The proofs for the authenticity of the New Tefta¬
ment have this peculiar advantage, that they are plain
and fimple, and involve no metaphyfical fubtilties.—
Ev'ery man who can diftinguifh truth from falfehood
muff fee their force ; and if there are any fo blinded by
prejudice, or corrupted by licentioufnefs, as to attempt
by fophiftry to elude them, their fophiftry will be eafily
detefted by every man of common underftanding, who
has read the hiitorical evidence with candour and atten¬
tion. Inftead, therefore, of declaiming againft the in¬
fidel, we folicit his attention to this fubjeft, convinced,
that where truth refides, it will ftiine with fo conftant
and clear a light, that the combined ingenuity of all the
deifts fince the beginning of the world will never be
'able to extinguifti or to obfcure it. If the books of the
New Teftament are really genuine, oppofition wdll in¬
cite the Chriftian to bring forward the evidence ; and
thus by the united efforts of the deift and the Chriftian,
the arguments will be ftated with all the clearnefs and
accuracy of which they are fufceptible in fo remarkable
a degree.
It is furprifing that the adverfaries of Chriftianity
have not always made their firft attacks in this quar¬
ter ; for if they admit that the waitings of the New7 Te¬
ftament are as ancient as wTe affirm, and compofed by
the perfons to whom they are afcribed, they muff al¬
low7, if they reafon fairly, that the Chriftian religion is
true.
The apoftles frequently allude in their epiftles to the
gift of miracles, which they had communicated to the
Chriftian converts by the impofition of hands, in con¬
firmation of the doflrine delivered in their fpeeches and
writings, and fometimes to miracles which they them-
Mtchaeli's felves had performed. Now if thefe epiftles are really
Introduc- genuine, it is hardly poffible to deny thofe miracles to
tioji to the he true. The cafe is here entirely different from that
J e~ta~ of an hiftorian, who relates extraordinary events in the
courfe of his narrative, fince either credulity or an ac¬
tual intention to deceive may induce him to defcribe as
true a feries of falfehoods refpefting a foreign land or
diftant period. Even to the Evangelifts might an ad¬
versary of the Chriftian religion make this objeftion :
but to write to perfons with whom we ffand in the
neareft conne6fion, “ I have not only performed mira¬
cles in your prefence, but have likewife communicated
to you the fame extraordinary endowments,” to write
in this manner, if nothing of the kind had ever hap¬
pened, would require fuch an incredible degree of ef¬
frontery, that he who poffeffed it would not only ex-
pofe himfelf to the utmoft ridicule, hut by giving his ad¬
verfaries the faireft opportunity to deleft his impof-
ture, would ruin the caufe which he attempted to fup-
jpert.
3
] S C R
St Paul’s Firft; Epiftle to the Theffalonians is addref- Scripture,
fed to a community to which he had preached the gof- ~y~mJ
pel only three Sabbath days, when he was forced to
quit it by the perfecution of the populace. In this
epiftle he appeals to the miracles which he had per¬
formed, and to the gilts of the Holv Spirit which he
had communicated. Now, is it poffible, without for¬
feiting all pretenfiors to common fenfe, that, in writing
to a community which he had lately eftabliffied, he could
fpeak of miracles performed, and gifts of the Holy
Ghoft communicated, if no member of the fociety had
feen the one, or received the other ?
To fuppofe that an impoftor could wTrite to the con¬
verts or adverfaries of the new7 religion fuch epiftles as
thefe, with a degree of triumph over his opponents,
and yet maintain his authority, implies ignorance and
ftupidxty hardly to be believed. Credulous as the Chri-
ftians have been in later ages, and even fo early as the
third century, no lefs fevere w7ere they in their inqui¬
ries, and guarded againft; deception, at the introduftion
of Chriftianity. This character is given them even by
Lucian, a writer of the fecond century, who vented
his fatire not only againft certain Chriftians *, who * x>e tfzorfe
had fupplied Peregrinus with the means of fubfift- Peregrini,
ence, but alfo againft: heathen oracles and pretended $ I2> ^16-
wonders. He relates of his impoftor (Pfeudomantis),^^^^'
that he attempted nothing fupernatural in the prefence p. ^ 
of the Chriftians and Epicureans. This Pfeudomantis 338. 341.
exclaims before the wffiole affembly, “ -Aw7ay with the
Chriftians, aw7ay v.uth the Epicureans, and let thofe on¬
ly remain who believe in the Deity !” (V/s-svemj -jy
©sw) on which the populace took up ft ones to drive
away the fufpicious •, while the other philofophers, Py¬
thagoreans, Platonifts, and Stoics, as credulous friends
and proteftors of the caufe, were permitted to re¬
main f. ^ Alexan
It is readily acknowledged, that the arguments
drawm from the authenticity of the New Teftament iyeWo-
only eftablifti the truth of the miracles performed mantis,
the apoflles, and are not applicable to the miracles of^o^'.-?2,
our Saviour; yet, if we admit the firft: three gofpels tOp’ 232*23'
be genuine, the truth of the Chriftian religion will be -44,245."
proved from the prophecies of Jefus. For if thefe go¬
fpels were compofed by Matthew, Mark, and Luke,
at the time in w'hich all the primitive Chriftians affirm,
that is, previous to the deftruiftion of Jerufalem, they
muft be infplred ; for they contain a circumftantial pro¬
phecy of the deftruflion of Jerufalem, and determine
the period at which it w7as accompliihed. Now it was
impoffible that human fagacity ceuld forefee that event;
for when it was predifled nothing wTas more impro¬
bable. The Jew’s w7ere refolved to avoid an open re¬
bellion, well knowing the greatnefs of their danger, and
fubmitred to the oppreffions of their governors in the
hope of obtaining redrefs from the court of Rome.—
Tbe circumftance which gave birth to theTe misfortunes
is fo trifling in itlelf, that independent of its confe-
quences, it would not deferve to be recorded. In the
narrow entrance to a fynagogue in Csefarea, fome per-
fon had made an offerirg of birds merely with a view
to irritate the Jew s. I he infult excited their indig¬
nation, and occafioned the {bedding of blood. With¬
out this trifling accident, which no human wifdom
could forefee even the day before it happened, it is pof¬
fible that the prophecy of Jeius would never have been
fulfilled.
Their au¬
thenticity
proved.
SCR \ [
Scripture, fulfilled. But Floras, who was then procurator of Ju-
dea, converted this private quarrel into public hoftili-
ties, and compelled the Jewilh nation to rebel contrary
to its with and refolution, in order to avoid what the
Jews had threatened, an impeachment before the Ro¬
man emperor for his exceffive cruelties. But even af¬
ter this rebellion had broken out, the deftruftion of
the temple was a very improbable event. It was not
the praftice of the Romans to deftroy the magnificent
edifices of the nations which they fubdued ; and of all
the Roman generals, none was more unlikely to de-
molilh fo ancient and auguft a building as Titus Vef-
pafian.
So important then is the queftion, Whether the books
of the New Teftament be genuine ? that the arguments
which prove their authenticity, prove alfo the truth of
the Chriftian religion. Let us now confider the evi¬
dence which proves the authenticity of the New Te-
ftament.
We receive the books of the New’ Teftament as the
genuine works of Matthew, Mark, Luke, John, and
Paul, for the fame reafon that we receive the writings
of Xenophon, of Polybius, of Plutarch, of Caefar, and
of Livy. We have the uninterrupted teftimony of all
ages, and we have no reafon to fufpeft impofition.
This argument is much ftronger when applied to the
books of the New Teftament than when applied to any
other writings j for they were addreffed to large focie-
ties, w’ere often read in their prefence, and acknow¬
ledged by them to be the writings of the apoftles. 
Whereas, the moft eminent profane writings which ftill
remain W’ere addreffed only to individuals, or to no per-
fons at all: and we have no authority to affirm that
they wrere read in public } on the contrary, we know
that a liberal education was uncommon ; books were
fcarce, and the knowledge of them was confined to a
few individuals in every nation.
The New Teftament was read over three quarters of
the world, while profane writers were limited to one
nation or to one country. An uninterrupted fuccef-
fion of writers from the apoftolic ages to the prefent time
quote the facred writings, or make allufions to them :
and thefe quotations and allufions are made not only by
friends but by enemies. This cannot be afferted of even
the beft claffic authors. And it is highly probable, that
the tranflations of the New Teftament were made fo
early as the fecond century ; and in a century or two
after, they became very numerous. After this period,
it was impoffible to forge new writings, or to corrupt
the facred text, unlefs we can fuppofe that men of dif¬
ferent nations, of different fentiments and different lan¬
guages, and often exceedingly hoftile to one another,
fhould all agree in one forgery. This argument is fo
llrong, that if we deny the authenticity of the New
Teftament, we may with a thoufand times more pro¬
priety rejeft all the other writings in the world : we
rnay even throw afide human teftimony itfelf. But as
this fubjeft is of great importance, we fhall confider it
at more length; and to enable our readers to judge with
the greater accuracy, we {hall ftate, from the valuable
work of Michaelrs, as tranflated by the judicious and
learned Mr Marfti, the reafons which may induce a cri¬
tic to lulpeft a work to be fpurious.
Negatively. I- When doubts have been made from its firft appear¬
ance in the world, whether it proceeded from the au-
Vol. XIX. Part I.
86
9 ] SCR
thor to whom it is afcribed. 2. When the immediate Scripture,
friends of the pretended author, who were able to de-~v—~'
cide upon the fubjedt, have denied it to be his produc- Tjie ^Jafon3
tion. 3. When a long feries of years has elapfed af- that would
ter his death, in which the book was unknown, and in prove a
which it muft unavoidably have been mentioned andbook t0 be
quoted, had it really exifted. 4. When the ftyle is dif-il>u“ou3'
ferent from that of his other writings, or, in cafe no
other remain, different from that which might reafon-
ably be expedted. 5. When events are recorded which
happened later than the time of the pretended author.
6. When opinions are advanced which contradidt thofe
he is known to maintain in his other writings. Though
this latter argument alone leads to no pofitive con-
clufion, fince every man is liable to change his opi¬
nion, or through forgetfulnefs to vary in the circum-
ftances of the fame relation, of which Jofephus, in his
Antiquities and War of the Jews, affords a ftriking ex¬
ample. ^ 88
1. But it cannot be ffiown that any one doubted ofDo not aP-
its authenticity in the period in which it firft appeared. Pj^0,
2. No ancient accounts are on record whence we may 6 **
conclude it to be fpurious. 3. No conliderable period
elapfed after the death of the apoftles, in which the
New Teftament was unknown •, but, on the contrary, it
is mentioned by their very contemporaries, and the ac¬
counts of it in the fecond century are ftill more nume¬
rous. 4. No ax-gument can be brought in its disfavour
from the nature of the ftyle, it being exadtly fuch as
might be expedled from the apoftles, not Attic but
Jewiffi Greek. 5. No fadts are recorded which hap¬
pened after their death. 6. No dodlrines are main¬
tained which contradidl the known tenets of the au¬
thors, fince, befide the New Teftament, no writings of
the apoftles exift. But, to the honour of the New Te¬
ftament be it fpoken, it contains numerous contradic¬
tions to the tenets and dodlrines of the fathers in the fe¬
cond and third century, whofe morality was different from
that of the gofpel, which recommends fortitude and
fubmiffion to unavoidable evils, but not that enthufiaftic
ax-dour for martyrdom for which thofe centuries are di-
ftinguiihed; it alludes to ceremonies which in the fol¬
lowing ages were either in difufe or totally unknown :
all which circumftances infallibly demonftrate that the
New Teftament is not a produdlion of dither of thofe
centuries.
We {hall now confider the pofitive evidence for the Politivel*.
authenticity of the New Teftament. Thefe may be ar¬
ranged under the three following heads :
1. The impoffibility of a forgery, arifing from the
nature of the thing itfelf. 2. The ancient Chriftian,
Jewiffi, and Heathen teftimony in its favour. 3. Its
own internal evidence.
1. The impoffibility of a forgery arifing from the na- Iitipoflibiik'
ture of the thing itfelf is evident. It is impoffible totyofa(or*
eitabliftx forged writings as authentic in any place where
there are perfons ftrongly inclined and well qualified to nature of
de^j^l the fraud. Now the Jews were the moft violent the thing
enemies of Chriftianity. They put the founder of it to
death ; they perfecuted his difciples with implacable
fury 5 and they were anxious to ftifle the new religion
in its birth. If the writings of the New Teftament
had been forged, would not the Jews have detecled the
impofture ? Is there a fingle inftanee on record where
a feiv individuals have impofed a hiftory upon the w orld
® againft
SCR [
3gainft the teftimony of a whole nation r Would the
inhabitants of Paleftine have received the gofpels, if
they had not had fufficient evidence that Jefus Chrift
really appeared among them, and performed the mira¬
cles afcribed to him ? Or w'ould the churches of Rome
or of Corinth have acknowledged the epiftles addrefled
to them as the genuine works of Paul, if Paul had
never preached among them ? We might as well think
to prove, that the hiftory of the Reformation is the in¬
vention of hilforians; and that no revolution happened
in Great Britain during the laft century.
2. I he fecond kind of evidence w7hich we produce
to prove the authenticity of the New Teftament, is the
teftimony of ancient workers, Chriftians, Jews, and Hea¬
thens.
In reviewing the evidence of teftimony, it will not
be expe&ed that we ftiould begin at the prefent age,
and trace backwards the authors who have written on
this fubjeft to the firft ages of Chriftianity. This in¬
deed, though a laborious talk., could be performed in
the moll complete manner; the whole feries pf authors
numerous in every age, who have quoted from the books’
of the New Teftament, written commentaries upon
them, tranllated them into different languages, or who
have drawn up a lift of them, could be exhibited fo as to
form fuch a perfefl body of evidence, that we imagine
even a jury of deifts would find it impoflible, upon a de¬
liberate and candid examination, to rejeft or dilbelieve
it. We do not, however, fuppofe that fcepticifm has
yet arrived at fo great a height as to render fuch a tedi¬
ous and circumftantial evidence neceffary. Palling over
the intermediate fpace, therefore, we lhallafcend at once
to the fourth century, wken the evidence for the authen¬
ticity of the New Teftament w7as fully eftabliffed, and
trace it back from that period to the age of the apoftles.
We hope that this method of ftating the evidence will
] SC II
appear more natural, and will afford more fatisfaction, Scr
than that which has been ufually adopted.  
It is lurcly more natural, when we inveftigate the
truth or any fact which depends on a feries of teftimo¬
ny, to begin with thofe witneffes who lived neareft the
Prefent age, and whofe chara&ers are beft eftablilhed.
In this way we {hall learn from themfelves the founda¬
tion of their belief, and the charafters of thole from
whom they derived it; and thus we afeend till we ar¬
rive at its origin. This mode of inveftigation will
give more fatisfaftion to the deift than the dual way ^
and we believe no Chriftian, who is confident of the
goodnefs of his cade, will be unwilling to grant any
proper conceftions. The deift will thus have an oppor¬
tunity of examining, feparately, what he will confider
as the veakeft parts of the evidence, thofe which are
exhibited by the earlieft Chriftian writers, confifting of
expreflions, and not quotations, taken from the New
Teftament. The Chriftian, on the other hand, ought
to wifh, that thefe apparently weak parts of the evi¬
dence were diftin&ly examined, for they will afford an
irrefragable proof that the New Teftament was not for¬
ged : and ftiould the deift rejeft the evidence of t'jofe
early writers, it will be incumbent on him to account
for the origin of the Chriftian religion, which he will
find more difficult than to admit the common hypo-
thefis.
_ In the fourth century we could produce the teftimo-
nies of numerous witntffes to prove that the books of
the New Teftament exifted at that time; but it will be
fufficient to mention their names, the time in which
they wrote, and the fubftance of their evidence. This-
we lhall prefent in a concife form in the following
table, which is taken from Jones’s New and Full Me¬
thod of cftablilhing the canon of the New Teftament. •
7/h? Names of the
Writers.
Athanafius bilhop of A-
lexandria,
n.
Cyril biffiop of Jerufa-
lem.
III.
The bilhops affembJed
in the council of Lao-
dicea.
IV.
Epiphanius bilhop of Sa-
lamis in Cyprus.
V.
Gregory Nazianzen bi¬
lhop of Conftantino-
ple.
Times in
which they
lived.
A. C.
340*
364*
37°»
375-
The variation or agreement of their
catalogues with ours now received.
The boohs in which thefe catalogues
are.
The fame perfectly with ours now
received.
The fame with ours, only the Re¬
velation is omitted.
The Revelation is omitted.
The fame with ours now’ received.
m
Omits the Revelation^
Fragment. Epif. Tefal, tom. ii. in
Synopf. tom. i.
Catech. IV. § ulh p. 101.
Canon LIX.
N. B. The Canons of this council
were not long aftenvards recei¬
ved into the body of the canons
of the univerfal church.
Heeref. y6. cent. Anom, p. 399.
Carm. de veris et genuin. Scriptur.
SCR
Srftipture.
The Names of the
Writers.
f it ]
SCR
Times in
which theij
lived.
VL
Philaftriusbifhopof Brix
ia in Venice.
Jerome.
VII.
VIII.
Ruffin prefbyter of Aqui-
legium.
IX.
Auftin biffiop of Hippo
in Africa.
X.
The XLIV biffiops af-
fembled in the third
council of Carthage.
380.
I he variation or agreement of their
catalogues with ours now received.
The hooks in which thefe catalogues
382.
390.
394-
St Auftin
was pre-
fent at it.
The fame with ours now received ;
except that he mentions only 13
of St Paul’s epiitles (omitting
very probably the Epiftle to the
Hebrews), and leaves out the
Revelations.
Phe fame with ours ; except that
he fpeaks dubiouily of the £-
piftle to the Hebrews j though
in other parts of his writings he
receives it as canonical.
It perfe&ly agrees with ours.
It perfectly agrees with ours.
It perfe&ly agrees with ours.
Sciipture,
Lib. de lice ref. Numb. 87.
pz
Teftimo-
t)ies of the
ancient
"Chriftians.
Ep. ad Paulin. Traci. 6. p. 2. Alio
commonly prefixed to the Latin
vulgar.
Expof. in Symb. Slpoftol. § 36. int.
Ep. Hieron. Par. 1. Trail. 3.
p. 110. et inter Op. Cypr. p. 573.
De Doilrin. Thrift, lib. ii. c. 8. Tom.
Op. 3. p. 25.
Vid. Canon XLVII. et cap. u/t.
Pa try's E-
"Mtlences of
Chriftia-
nity.
93
Of Eufe-
bius.
We now go back to Eufebius, who wrote about the
3I5» and whofe catalogue of the books of the New
left ament we ihall mention at more length. “ Let us
oblerve (fays he) the writings of the apoftle John,
which are uncontradBed; and, firft of all, mu ft be men-
tioned, as acknowledged of all, the gofpel, according
to him, well known to all the churches under heaven ’’
The author then proceeds to relate the occafions of
writing the gofpels, and the reafons for placing St John’s
the laft, manifeftly fpeaking of all the four as equal in
their authority, and in the certainty of their original.
I he iecond paffage is taken from a chapter, the title of
whicn !s “ Of the Scriptures univerfally acknowledged,
and of thofe that are not fuch.” Eufebius begins his
enumeration in the following manner : “ Jn the firft
place, are to be ranked the facred four Gofpels, then the
book of the Ads of the Apoftles ; after that are to be
reckoned the epiftles of Paul : in the next place, that
called the firft Epiftle of John and the Epiftle of Peter
are to be efteemed authentic : after this is to be placed
1 1 nbe„th°oUrght fit’ the Revelati°n of John 5 about which
we ftiall obferve the different opinion's at proper feafons.
Ut the controverted, but yet well known or approved
by the moft, are that called the Epiftle of James and
that °f Jude, the fecond of Peter, and the fecond and
tnird of John, whether they were written by the evan-
gehft or by another of die fame name.” He then pro¬
ceeds to reckon up five others, not in our canon, which
he calls in one place fpurious, in another controvert-
ed; evidently meaning the fame thing by thefe two
words (s).
. A* I}- 290, Vi (florin bilhop of Pettaw in Germany, Of Victo.
™ ? commentary upon this text of the Revelation,™-
1 he firft was like a lion, the fecond was like a calf
t..e third like a man, and the fourth like a flying eatde ”
makes out, that by the four creatures are intended^ the
lour gofpels ; and to ffiow the propriety of the fymbols
he recites the fubjeft with which each evangelirt opens
his hiftory.. The explication is fanciful, but the tefti-
ApoftlesfitlVe’ HC alf° eXprefsly cites the A&s of the
A. p. 230, Cyprian biihop 0f Carthage gives the^^95-
followmg teilimony: “ The church (favs^this fatherl 0f Cypa"
is rie!;,;d ^Paradife four --s, that is,s by San-
go pels. The A <fls of the Apoftles are alfo frequently
quoted by Cyprian under that name, and under the
name of the Divine Scriptures” In his various wri¬
tings are fuch frequent and copious citations of Scrip¬
ture, as to place this part of the teftimony beyond con-
troverfy Nor is there, in the works of this eminent
African biffiop, one quotation of a fpurious or apocry¬
phal Chnftian writing.” ^ ^
A. D. 210, Ongen is a moft important evidence, OfOrLa.
Nothing can be more peremptory upon the fubjeft now
R 2 under
froLSldallthtbrct;“LinS;ebyfthV0rd 'Vl,at we al by it, is evident
Others, he fays, “ The^are Jot fo ^cT’ t gf8 f "’p Gorpels f and MaJhias and fame
.abfard and’impious.” Lard. Cred. vol. viii. p. ‘m°"g t ^/furious, but are to be rejefted as altogether
97
Of Tertul-
lian.
SCR [12
Scripture, under confideration, and, from a writer of his learning
an(l information, nothing more fatisfa&ory, than the de¬
claration of Origen, preferved in an extract of his works
by Eufebius : “ That the four gofpels alone are received
without difpute by the whole church of God under
heaven to which declaration is immediately fubjoined
a brief hiftory of the refpeftive authors, to whom they
were then, as they are now, afcribed. The fentiments
expreffed concerning the gofpels ^in all the works of
Origen which remain, entirely correfpond with the telli-
mony here cited. His atteftation to the Afts of the
Apoftles is no lefs pofitive : “ And Luke alfo once
more founds the trumpet relating the Adis of the A-
poftles.” That the Scriptures were then univerfally
read, is plainly affirmed by this -writer in a paffage in
which he is repelling the objections of Celfus, “ That
it is not in private books, or fuch as are read by few
only, and thofe ftudious perfons, but in books read by
every body, that it is -written, The invilible things of
God from the creation of the world are clearly feen,
being underftood by things that are made.” It is to
no purpofe to Angle out quotations of Scripture from
fuch a writer as this. We might as well make a felec-
tion of the quotations of Scripture in Dr Clarke’s fer-
mons. They are fo thickly fown in the works of Origen,
that Dr Mill fays, “ If we had all his works remaining,
we ffiould have before us almoft the whole text of the
Bible.”
A. D. 194, Tertullian exhibits the number of the
gofpels then received, the names of the evangelills, and
their proper defignations, in one fhort fentence.—
“ Among the apoftles, John and Matthew teach us the
faith 5 among apoftolical men, Luke and Mark refrefti
it.” The next paflage to be taken from Tertullian af¬
fords as complete an atteftation to the authenticity of the
gofpels as can be well imagined. After enumerating the
churches which had been founded by Paul at Corinth,
in Galatia, at Philippi, Theflalonica, and Ephefus, the
church of Rome eftabliffied by Peter and Paul, and other
churches derived from John, he proceeds thus: “ I fay
then, that with them, but not with them only which are
apoftolical, but with all who have fellowffiip w-ith them
in the fame faith, is that gofpel of Luke received from
its firft publication, which we fo zealoufly maintain
and prefently afterwards adds, “ The fame authority of
the apoftolical churches will fupport the other gofpels,
which we have from them, and according to them, I
mean John’s and Matthew’s, although that like wile
which Mark publilhed may be faid to be Peter’s, whofe
interpreter Mark was.” In another place Tertullian
affirms, that the three other gofpels, as well as St Luke’s,
were in the hands of the churches from the beginning.
This noble teftimony proves inconteftably the antiquity
of the gofpels, and that they were univerfally received ;
that they wyere in the hands of all, and had been fo
from the firft. And this evidence appears not more
than 150 years after the publication of the books. Dr
Lardner obferves, “ that there are more and larger quo¬
tations of the fmall volume of the New Teftament in
this one Chriftian author, than there are of all the wyorks
of Cicero, in writers of all charadlers, for feveral ages.”
A. D. 178, Irenaeus wyas biffiop of Lyons, and is
mentioned by Tertullian, Eufebius, Jerome, and Pho-
titjs. In his youth he had been a difciple of Polycarp,
5>S
Of Irenseus.
] SCR
who w'as a difciple of John. He afferts of himfelf and Scripture,
his co-ntemporaries, that they were able to reckon up in r~v
all the principal churches the fucceffion of biftiops t.o
their firft inftitution. His teftimony to the four gofpels
and A£ls of the ^.poftles is exprefs and pofitive. “ We
have not received,” fays Irenteus, “ the knowledge of
the way of our falvation by any others than thofe by
whom the gofpel has been brought to us. Which goi-
pel they firft preached, and afterwards by the will of
God, committed to writing, that it might be for time
to come the foundation and pillar of our faith. For
after that our Lord rofe from the dead, and they (the
apoftles) were endowed from above with the power of
the Holy Ghoft coming down upon them, they received
a perfeft knowledge of all things. They then went
forth to all the ends of the earth, declaring to men the
bleffing of heavenly peace, having all of them, and
every one alike, the gofpel of God. Matthew then,
among the Jews, wrote a gofpel in their own language,
while Peter and Paul were preaching the gofpel at
Rome, and founding a church there. And alter their
exit, Mark alfo, the difciple and interpreter of Peter,
delivered to us in writing the things that had been
preached by Peter. And Luke, the companion of
Paul, put down in a book the gofpel preached by him
(Paul). Afterwards John, the difciple of the Lord,
who alfo leaned upon his breaft, likewife publifhed a
gofpel while he dwelt at Ephefus in Afia.” Irenaeus
then relates how Matthew begins his gofpel, how Mark
begins and ends his, and gives the fuppofed reafons for
doing fo. He enumerates at length all the paffages of
Chrift’s hiftory in Luke, which are not found in any of
the other evangelifts. He ftates the particular defign
with which St John compofed his gofpel, and accounts
for the doftrinal declarations which precede the narra¬
tive. If any modern divine Ihould write a book upon
the genuinenefs of the gofpels, he could not affert it more
exprefsly, or ftate their original more diftindtly, than
Irenaeus hath done within little more than 100 years
after they were publiffied.
Refpefting the book of the A£ls of the Apoftles, and
its author, the teftimony of Irenseus is no lefs explicit.
Referring to the account of St Paul’s converfion and
vocation, in the ninth chapter of that book, “ Nor
can they (fays he, meaning the parties with whom he
argues) ffiow that he is not to be credited, who has re¬
lated to us the truth with the greateft exa&nefs.” In
another place, he has a£lually colledled the feveral texts,
in which the writer of the hiftory is reprefented as ac¬
companying St Paul, which led him to exhibit a fum-
mary of almoft the whole of the laft twelve chapters of
the book.
According to Lardner, Irenaeus quotes twelve of
Paul’s epiftles, naming their author 5 alfo the firft
epiftle of Peter, the two firft epiftles of John, and the
Revelation. The epiftles of Paul which he omits are
thofe addreffed to Philemon and the Hebrews. Eufe¬
bius fays, that he quotes the epiftle to the Hebrews,
though he does not aferibe it to Paul. The work, how¬
ever, is loft.
A. D. 172, Tatian, who is fpoken of by Clemens Of Tatian.
Alexandrinus, Origen, Eufebius, and Jerome, compofed
a harmony of the four gofpels, which he called Diatef/h-
ron of the four. This title, as wTell as the work, is re¬
markable,
* John
JEVi. 2.
100
Of Jullin
Martyr.
SCR t i
Scripture, markable, becaufe it (hows that then as well as now
"_v there were four, and only four, gofpels in general uie
among Chriftians.
A. D. 170, the churches of Lyons and Vienne in
France fent an account of the fuflferings of their martyrs
to the churches of Alia and Phrygia, which has been
preferved entire by Eufebius. And what carries in
fome meafure the teftimony of thefe churches to a
higher age is, that they had now' for their bilhop Po-
thinus, who was 90 years old, and whofe early life con-
fequently muft have immediately followTed the times of
the apoftles. In this epiftle are exatt references to the
gofpels of Luke and John, and to the A£ts of the
Apoftles. The form of reference is the fame as in all
the preceding articles. That from St John is in thefe
words : “ Then was fulfilled that which was fpoken by
the Lord, that whofoever killeth you, will think that he
doth God fervice
Diftinift references are alfo made to other books, viz.
Afts, Romans, Ephefians, Philippians, 1 limothy, 1 Pe¬
ter, 1 John, Revelation.
A. D. 14©, Juftin Martyr compofed feveral books,
which are mentioned by his difciple Tatian, by lertul-
lian, Methodius, Eufebius, Jerome, Epiphanius, and
Photius. In his writings between 20 and 30 quota¬
tions from the gofpels and A61s of the Apoftles are rec¬
koned up, which are clear, diftinft, and copious ; if each
verfe be counted feparately, a much greater number *, if
each exprcffion, ftill more. Jones, in his book on the
Canon of the New Teftament, ventures to affirm that
he cites the books of which it confifts, particularly the
four gofpels, above 200 times.
We meet with quotations of three of the gofpels
within the compafs of half a pag® j (i and in other
words, he fays, Depart from me into outer darknefs,
which the Father hath prepared for Satan and his An¬
gels,” (which is from Matthew xxv. 4t-)* “ And again
he faid in other words, I give unto you power to tread
upon ferpents and fcorpions, and venomous beafts, and
upon all the power of the enemy.” (This from Luke
x. 19.). “ And, before he was crucified, he faid, The
fon of man muft fuffer many things, and be rejefted of
the Scribes and Pharifees, and be crucified, and rife
again the third day.” (This from Mark viii. 31.).
All the references in Juftin are made without men¬
tioning the author; which proves that thefe books w'ere
perfectly well known, and that there were no other ac¬
counts of Chrift then extant, or, at leaft, no others fo
received and credited as to make it neceiTary to add any
marks of diftin&ion. But although .Tuftin mentions
not the authors names, he calls the books Memoirs com¬
pofed by the Apqflles ; Memoirs compofed by the Apofles
and their Companions; which deferiptions, the latter
efpecially, exaftly luit the titles which the Gofpels and
A61s of the Apoftles now bear.
He informs us, in his firft apology, that the Memoirs
of the Apofles, or the writings of the prophets, are read
according as the time allows j and, when the reader has
ended, the prefident makes a difeourfe, exhorting to the
imitation of fuch excellent things.
A few ftiort obfervations will ftiow the value of this
teftimony. 1. The Memoirs of the Apoftles, Juftin in
another place exprefsly tells us are what are called gof¬
pels. s And that they were the gofpels which we now
3 ] SCR
ufe is made certain by Juftin’s numerous quotations of Scripture-
them, and his filence about any others. 2. He de-
feribes the general ufage of the Chriftian church. 3*
He does not fpeak of it as recent or newly inftituted,
but in the terms in which men fpeak of eftabliftied
cuftoms.
Juftin alfo makes fuch allufions to the following books-
as (hews that he had read them : Romans, 1 Corinthians,
Galatians, Ephefians, Philippians, Coloffians, 2 Iheffa-
lonians, Hebrews, 2 Peter 5 and he aferibes the Revela¬
tion to John the Apoftle of Chrift. ' . 101
A. D. 116, Papias, a hearer of John, and companion Of Papia?.
of Polycarp, as Irenaeus attefts, and of the apoftolical age
as all agree, in a paffage quoted by Eufebius, bona a
work now loft, exprefsly aferibes the two firft gofpels
to Matthew and Mark ; and in a manner which proves
that thefe gofpels muft have publicly borne the names of
thefe authors at that time, and probably long before ; for
Papias does not fay, that one gofpel was written by Mat¬
thew, and another by Mark 5 but, affuming this as per-
feftly well known, he tells us from what materials IVIark
collefted his account, viz. from Peter’s preaching, and
in what language Matthew wrrote, viz. in Hebrew-
Whether Papias was well informed in this ftatement or
not, to the point for which this teftimony is produced,
namely, that thefe books bore thefe names at this time,
his authority is complete.
Papias himfelf declares that he received his accounts
of Chriftianity from thofe who wrere acquainted with the
apoftles, and that thofe accounts which he thus received
from the older Chriftians, and had committed to memory,
he inferted in his books. He farther adds, that he w'as
very folicitous to obtain every poffible information, efpe¬
cially to learn w7hat the apoftles faid and preached, va-
luincr fuch information more than what was written in
* Prcefat.
books *. ■ q. J
A. D. 108, Polycarp was the bilhop of Smyrna, and .
difciple of John the Apoftle. This teftimony concern-y^ ffif.
ing Polycarp is given by Irenaeus, who in his youth had£t/. lib. iii-
feen him. “ I can tell the place,” faith Irenaeus, “ inc. 39.
which the bleffed Polycarp fat and taught, and his go- of
ing out and coming in, and the manner of his life, andcarp>
the form of his perfon, and the difeourfes he made to
the people, and how he related his converfation with
John and others who had feen the Lord, and how he
related their fayings, and wffiat he had heard concern¬
ing the Lord, both concerning his miracles and his doc¬
trine, as he had received them from the eye-witneffes of
the word of life j all which Polycarp related agreeable
to the feriptures.”
Of Polycarp, whofe proximity to the age and country
and perfons of the apoftles is thus attefted, we have one
undoubted epiftle remaining ; which, though a fhort
performance, contains nearly 40 clear allufions to the
books of the New Teftament. This is ftrong evidence
of the refpeft which was paid to them by Chriftians of
that age. Amongft thefe, although the writings of St
Paul are more frequently ufed by Polycarp than other
parts of feripture, there are copious allufions to the gof—-
pel of St Matthew, fome to paffages found in the gofpels
both of Matthew and Luke, and fome which more near¬
ly referable the wrords in Luke.
He thus fixes the authority of the Lord’s Prayer, and
the ufe of it among Chriftians. If,, therefore, we pray.
the-
sen r
, Sc nature, the Lord to forgive us, we ought alfo to forgive. And
again, With {application befeeching the all-ieeing God
not to lead us into temptation.
In another place, he quotes the words of our Lord :
But remembering what the Lord faid, teaching,
Judge not, that ye be not judged. Forgive, and ye
fhall be forgiven; be ye merciful, that ye may obtain
mercy ’ "1^ w^at meafore ye mete, it {hall be meaiured
viii to y°u again*. Suppofmg Polycarp to have had thefe
v. 7. ' ' ' ^vor(is (rf.om t-iie bocks in which we now find them, it
is manifeft that thefe books were confidered by him,
and by his readers, as he thought, as authentic accounts
of Chnft’s dilcourfes : and that this point was inconteft-
able.
He quotes alfo the following books, the firft of which
he afcribes to St Paul: i Corinthians, Ephefians, Phi-
lippians, i and 2 Theflalonians \ and makes evident re¬
ferences to others, particularly to A£ts, Romans, 2 Co¬
rinthians, Galatians, i Timothy, 2 Timothy, i Peter,
x&2 i John.
Oflgna- Ignatius, as it is teftified by ancient Chriftian writers,
became biihop of Antioch about 37 years after Chrifl’s
afcenfion ; and therefore, from his time, and place, and
Ration, it is probable that he had known and converfed
with many of the apoftles. EpifUes of Ignatius are re¬
ferred to by Polycarp his contemporary. Paffages,
found in the epiftles now extant under his name, are
quoted by Ireneeus, A. D. 178, by Origen, A. D.
230 ; and the occafion of writing them is fijlly ex¬
plained by Eufebius and Jerome. What are called the
imaller epiftles of Ignatius are generally reckoned the
fame which were read by Irenaeus, Origen, and Eufe¬
bius.
They are admitted as genuine by Voflius, and have
been proved to be fo by Bifiiop Pearfon with a force of
argument which feems to admit of no reply. In thefe
epiftles are undoubted allufions to' Matt. iii. 15. xi. 16.
to John iii. 8, ; and their venerable author, who often
fpeaks of St Paul in terms of the highefl refpeft, once
104 quotes his epiftle to the Ephefians by name.
Of Her- Near the conclufion of the epiftle to the Romans,
mar. St Paul, amongft others, fends the following falutation :
“ Salute Afyncritus, Phlegon, Hennas, Patrobus,
Hermes, and the brethren which are with them.” Of
Hermas, who appears in this catalogue of Roman Chri-
ftians as contemporary with St Paul, there is a book
ftiil remaining, the authenticity of which cannot be
difputed. It is called the Shepherd, or Pajlor of Her.
mas. Its antiquity is inconteftable, from the quotations
of it in Irenaeus, A. D. 178, Clement of Alexandria,
A. D. 194, Tertullian, A. D. 200, Origen, A. D.
230. The notes of time extant in the epiftie itfelf agree
with its title, and wnth the teftimonies concerning it,
which intimate that it was written during the lifeiime
of Clement. In this piece are tacit allufions to St
Matthew’s, St Luke’s, and St John’s gofptls; that is
%o fay, there are applications of thoughts and expref-
4 I sen
lions found in thefe gofpels, without citing the place or Scripture,
writer from which they were taken. In this form ap-     
pear in Hermas the confeffing and denying of Chrift f j f Matt.
the parable of the feed {own 3 J the comparifon of32,33,or
Chrift’s difciples to little children ; the faying, “ he Luke xi<.
that putteth away his wife, and marrieth another, com-
mitteth adultery § the lingular expreffion, “ having X1p.
received all power from his Father,” is probably an allu- Luke
fion to Matt, xxviii. 18. and Chrift being the “ gate,” viii. 5.
or only way of coming “ to God,” is a plain allufion to § Luke KvL
John xiv. 6. x. 7. 9. There is alfo a probable allufion l8‘
to A<Els v. 32.
I he Shepherd of Hermas has been confidered as a
fanciful performance. This, however, is of no import¬
ance in the prefent cafe. We only adduce it as evi¬
dence that the books to which it frequently alludes ex-
ifted in the firft century ; and for this purpofe it is fatis-
fa&ory, as its authenticity has never been queftioned.
However abfurd opinions a man may entertain while he
retains his underftanding, his teftimony to a matter of
fa<5t will ftill be received in any court of juftice.
A.D. 96, we are in poffeflion of an epiftle written of
by Clement biftiop of Rome, whom ancient writers, with- mens Ro-
out any fcruple, affert to have been the Clement whom manus.
St Paul mentions Philippians iv. 3. “ with Clement al¬
fo, and other my fellow labourers, whofe names are in
the book of life.” This epiftle is fpoken of by the an¬
cients as an epiftle acknowledged by all ; and, as Ire-
uaeus well reprefents its value, “ written by Clement, who
hrd feen the bleffed apoftles and converfed with them,
who had the preaching of the apoftles ftill founding in
hrs ears, and their traditions before his eyes.” It is ad-
dreffed to the church of Corinth 5 and what alone may
feem a decifive proof of its authenticity, Dionyfius bi¬
ihop of Corinth, about the year 170, i. e. about 80 or
90 years after the epiftle was written, bears witnefs,
“ that it had been ufually read in that church from an¬
cient times.” This epiftle affords, amongft others, the
following valuable paffages: “ Efpecially remembering
the words of the Lord jefus, which he fpake, teaching
gentlenefs and long fuffering j for thus he faid (t), Be
ye merciful, that ye may obtain mercy ; forgive, that it
may be forgiven unto you j as you do, fo {hall it be done
unto you • as you give, fo {hall it be given unto you $
as ye judge, fo ff.all ye be judged ; as ye {hew kindnefs,
fo {hall kindnefs be fhewn unto you ; with what meafure
ye mete, with the fame it {hall he meafured to you. By
this command, and by thefe rules, let us eftablifh our-
lelves, that we may always walk obediently to his holy
words.”
Again, “ Remember the words of the Lord Jefus, for
he faid, Wo to that man by whom offences Come ; it
were better for him that he had not been born, than
that he ftiould offend one of my eleft ; it were better
for him that a millftone ftrould be tied about his neck,
and that he ftiould be drowned in the fea, than that he
ftrould offend one of my little ones (u).”
He
. (TJ ** Bltffed are the merciful, for they {hall obtain mercy,” Matt. v. 7. “ Forgive, and ye {hall be forgiven ;
give, and it fhall he given unto you,” Luke vi. 37, 38. “ judge not, that ye be not judged ; for with what judge¬
ment ye judge, ye {hull be judged, and with what meafure ye mete, it fhall be meafured t6 you again,” Matt. vii. 2.
l (’L . 6* “ But whofo {hall offend one of thefe little ones which believe in me, it were better for him
irun 2 mftlftone were hanged about his neck, and that he were cait into the fea.” The latter part of the paffage
in
Scripture.
SCR [
He afcribes the firih epilik to the Corinthians to Paul,
* Chap* L
ic6
The allu-
fiorts and
references
to the New
Teftament
by the firft
Chriftian
wrii.ers
prove that
it exilted
in their
time.
' and makes fuch alluiions to the following books as are
fufficient to Ihew that he had feen and read them : Afls,
Romans, 2 Corinthians, Galatians, Ephefkns, Philip-
pians, Coloffians, 1 Theffalonians, 1 Timothy, 2 Timo¬
thy, Titus, 1 Peter, 2 Peter.
It may be faid, as Clement has not mentioned the
books by name from which we affert tbefe allufions or
references are made, it is uncertain whether he refers to
any books, or whether he received" thefe exp regions from
the difcourfes and converfation of the apoftles. Mr
Paley has given a very fatisfaftory anfwer to this objec¬
tion : 1 ft, That Clement, in the very fame manner, name¬
ly, without any mark of reference, ufes a paffage now
found in the epiftle to the Romans * j which paffage,
from the peculiarity of the words that compofe it, and
from their order, it is manifeft that he muft have taken
from the epiftie. The fame remark may be applied to
feme very fingular fentiments in the epiftle to the He¬
brews. Secondly, That there are many fentencqs of
St Paul’s firft epiftle to the Corinthians, to be found in
Clement’s epiftle, without any fign of quotation, which
yet certainly are quotations •, becaufe it appears that
Clement had St Paul’s epiftle before him ; for in one
place he mentions it in terms too exprefs to leave us in
any doubt. “ Take into your hands the epiftle of the
bleffed apoftle Paul.” Thirdly, That this method of
adopting words of feripture, without reference or ac¬
knowledgement, was a method in general ufe amongft
the moft ancient Chriftian writers. Thefe analogies
not only repel the objefti in, but caft the prefumption
on the other fide •, and afford a confiderable degree of
pofitive proof, that the words in queftion have been
borrowed from the places of ferinture in which we now
find them. But take it, if you will, the other way, that
Clement had heard thefe words from the apoftles or firft
teachers of Chriftianity ; with refpeft to the precife
point of our argument, viz. that the feriptures contain
what the anoftles taught, this fuppofition may ferve al-
moft as well.
We have now traced the evidence to the times of the
apoftles; but we have not been anxious to draw it out
to a great length, by introducing every thing. On the
contrary, we have been careful to render it as concife
as poflible, that its force might be difeerned at a glance.
The evidence which has been ftated is of two kinds.
Till the time of Juftin Martyr and Irenseus it confifts
chiefly of allufions, references, and expreflions, borrow¬
ed from the books of the New Teftament, without men¬
tioning them by name. After the time of Ireiams it
became ufual to cite the facred books, and mention the
authors from whom the citations were taken.
The firft (becies of evidence will perhaps appear to
feme excentionable; but it muft be remembered that
it was ufual among the ancient Chriftians as well as
Jews to adopt the evnreftions of Scripture without nam¬
ing the authors. Why they did fo it is not neceffary
to inquire. The only point of importance to be deter¬
mined is, whether thofe references are a fufficieHt proof
15 ] SCR
ot the exiftence of lire books to which they allude ? Scripture.
This, we prefume, will not be denied ; efpecially in the v   
prefent age, when it is fo common to charg an author
with plagiarifm if he happen to fall upon the lame train
of ideas, or exprefs himfeif in a fimilar manner with au¬
thors who have written before him. We may farther
affirm, that thefe tacit references afford a complete proof
that thofe ancient writers had no intention of impofing
a forgery upon the world. They prove the exiftence
of the Chriftian religion and of the apoftolical writings
without (bowing any fufpicious earnettnefs that men
(hould believe them. Had thefe books been forged,
thofe who wiftied to pafs them upon the world would
have been at more pains than the firft Chriftians were
to prove their authenticity. They a&ed the part of
honeft rnen ; they believed them themieives, and they
never imagined that others would fuipeeff their truth. J
It is a confideration of great importance, in review¬
ing the evidence which has been now ftated, that the
witpeffes lived in different countries; Ckmens ftourilh-
ed at Rome, Polycarp at Smyrna, juftin A,artyr in Sy¬
ria, Irenaeus in France, Tertullian at Carthage, Origen
at Alexandria, and Eufebius at Caffarea. This proves
that the books of the New Teftament were equally well
known in diftant countries by men who had no inter-
courfe with one another.
The fame thing is proved by teftimonies if poffrble leftimo-
lefs exceptionable. The ancient heretics, whole opi- nies o} He-
nions were fometimes groffer and more impious than retic£"
thofe which any modern fe&ary has ventured to broach
and whofe zeal in the propagation of them equalled that
of the moft flaming enthufiaft of the laft century, never
called in queition the authenticity of the books of the
New Teftament. "When they met with any paffa^e in.
the gofpels or epiftles which they could not reconcile
to their own heretical notions, they either erafed it, or
denied that the author was infpired j but they nowhere
contend that the book in which it (food was not writ¬
ten by the apoftle or evangelift whofe name it bore.
Eufebius relates, that the Ebionites rejeffed all the
epiftles of Paul, and called him an apoftate, becaufe he
departed from the Levitical law •, and they adopted as
their rule of faith the gofpel of St Matthew, though in
deed they greatly corrupted it. This proves therefore
that the go)pel according to Matthew was then publilh-
ed, and that St Paul’s epiftles were then known.
Of the heretics who erafed or altered paffages to
make the Scriptures agree with their do&rines, we may
produce Marcion as an inftance, who lived in the be
ginning of the fecond century. He lived in an age
when he could have eafily difeovered if the writings of
the New Teftament had been forged ; and as he was
much mcenfed againft the orthodox party, if fuch a for¬
gery had been committed, uuqueftionably he would not
have failed to make the difeovery, as it would have af¬
forded the moft ample means of revenge and triumph
and enabled him to eftablifti his own opinions with lefs
difficulty. But his whole condufl (hows clearly, that
he believed the writings of the New Teftament’to be
authentic.
aAreeS r-r??w wltih Luike fA 2’ “ n were better for him that a rnillftone were hanged about
his neck, and he cad into the iea. than that, he (hould offend one of thefe little ones,” S
I
S C R [
Scripture, authentic. He faid, that the gofpel according to St
Matthew, the epiftle to the Hebrews, with thole ot St
Peter and St James, as well as the Old Teftament in ge¬
neral, were writings not for Chiiiiians but for. Jews.
He publilhed a new edition of the gofpe.l according to
Luke, and the firft ten epiftles of Paul; in w^hich it has
been affirmed by Epiphanius, that he altered every paf-
fage that contradicted his own opinions.: but as many
of thefe alterations are wffiat modern critics call various
readings, though we receive the teftimony of Epiphani¬
us, we muft not rely upon his opinion (x). Hence it
is evident that the books of the New Teftament above-
mentioned did then exift, and were acknowledged to be
the works of the authors whofe names, they bear.
Dr Lardner, in his General Review, fums up this
head of evidence in the following words : “. Noetus,
Paul of Samofata, Sabellius, Marcellus, Photi.nus, the
Novatians, Donatifts, Manicheans (y), Prifcilhanifts,
beftde Artemon, the Audians, the Arians, and divers
others, all received moft or all the fame books of the
New Teftament wffiich the Catholics received ; and
agreed in a like refpeft for them as writ by apoftles or
lo8 their difciples and companions.” .
Teftimo- Celfus and Porphyry, both enemies of the Chriflian
uiesof Hea-yelimon, are powerful witneffes for the antiquity of the
tliens. Ne° Teftament. Celfus, who lived towards the end of
the fecond century, not only mentions by name, but
quotes paflages from the books of the New Teftament :
and that the books to which he refers were no other
than our prefent gofpels, is evident from the allufions to
Ot Cellos. varJous paffages fan fOUnd in them. Celfus take* notice
of the genealogies, which fixes two of thefe gofpels j of
the precepts, Refill not him that injures you, and, If a
man ftnke thee on the one cheek, offer to him .the other
alfo ; of the woes denounced by Chrift ; of his predic¬
tions ; of his faying, that it is impoffible to ferve two
mailers; of the purple robe, the crown of thorns, and
the reed which was put into the hand of Jefus ; of the
blood that flowed from his body upon the crofs, a cir-
cumftance which is recorded only by John j and (what
is injlar omnium for the purpofe for which we produce it)
of the difference in the accounts given of the refurreaion
by the evangelills, fome mentioning two angels at the
fepulchre, others only one.
It is extremely material to remark, that Celms not
only perpetually referred to the accounts of Chrift con¬
tained in the four gofpels, but that he referred to no
other accounts ; that he founded none of his objections
to Chriftianity on any thing delivered in fpunous gof-
xio pels. # # a
Of Porphy- The teftimony of Porphyry is ftill more important
xy. faan that of Celfus. He was born in the year 213, ot
Tyrian origin. Unfortunately lor the prefent age,
fays Michaelis, the miftaken zeal of the Chnftian em¬
perors has baniffied his writings from the world 5 and
every real friend of our religion would gladly give the
works of one of the pious fathers to refcue thole of Por¬
phyry from the flames. But Mr Marffi, the learned
and judicious tranflator of Michaelis, relates, that, ac¬
cording to the accounts of Ifaac Voflius, a manufcript
16 ] SCR
of the works of Porphyry is prefeived in the Medicean Scripture,-
library at Florence, but kept fo fecret that no one is v—
permitted to fee it. It is univerfally allowed, that Por¬
phyry is the moft fenfible, as well as the moft fevere,
adverfary of the Chriftian religion that antiquity can
produce. He wTas verfed not only in hiftory, but alfo
in philofophy and politics. His acquaintance wfith the
Chriftians was not confined to a fingle country j for he
had converfed with them in Tyre, in Sicily, and in
Rome. Enabled by his birth to ftudy the Syriac as
well as the Greek authors, he was of all the adverfaries
to the Chriftian religion the bell qualified to inquire in¬
to the authenticity of the facred writings. He poffeffed
therefore every advantage which natural abilities or a
fcientifie education could afford to difcover whether the
New Teftament was a genuine work of the apoftles and
evangelifts, or whether it was impofed upon the world
after the deceafe of its pretended authors. But no trace
of this fufpicion is anywhere to be found in his writings.
In the fragments which ftill remain, mention is made of
the gofpels of St Matthew, St Mark, and St John, the
Adis of the Apoftles, and the epiftle to the Galatians
and it clearly appears from the very objedlions of Por¬
phyry, that the books to which he alludes were the fame
which we poffefs at prefent. Thus he objedls to the
repetition of a generation in St Matthew’s genealogy j
to Matthew’s call j to the quotation of a text from
Ifaiah, which is found in a pfalm afcribed to Afaph j to
the calling of the lake of Tiberias a fea j to the expref-
fion in St Matthew7, “ the abomination of defolation 5”
to the variation in Matthew7 and Mark upon the text
“ the voice of one crying in the wildernefs,” Matthew
citing it from Ifaias, Mark from the prophets j to John’s
application of the term Wordi to Chrift’s change of in¬
tention about going up to the feaft of tabernacles (John
vii. 8.) j to the judgement denounced by St Peter upon
Ananias and Sapphira, w7hich he calls an imprecation of
death.
The inftances here alleged ferve in fome meafure to
ffiow the nature of Porphyry’s objedlions, and prove
that Porphyry had read the gofpels with that fort of
attention which a writer w7ould employ who regarded
them as the depofitaries of the religion which he at¬
tacked. Beiide thefe fpecifications, there exifts in the
waitings of ancient Chriftians general evidence, that the
places of Scripture, upon which Porphyry had made re¬
marks, were very numerous. . . rn
The internal evidence to prove the authenticity of Authenti-
the New7 Teftament confifts of two parts: The nature
of the ftyle, and the coincidence of the New Teftament £ae^ent.e'
with the hiftory of the times. _ proved
The ftyle of the New Teftament is fingular, and from inters
differs very widely from the ftyle of claffical authors. It1’31 evi-
is full of Hebraifms and Syriafms-, a circumftance which‘
pious ignorance has confidered as a fault, and which, prom t}je
even fo late as the prefent century, it has attempted ftyle.
to remove •, not knowing that thefe very deviations
from Grecian purity afford the ftrongeft prefumption in
its favour: for they prove, that the New Tejlament was
written by men of Hebrew origin, and is therefore a pro-
duBion
,XX Dr Loeffer has written a learned differtation to prove that Marcion did not corrupt the facred writings.
(y) This muft be with an exception, however, of Fauftus, who lived fo late as the year 384.
sen [
Scripture, duclion of llicfrjl century. After the death of the fir ft
Jewith converts, few of the Jews turned preachers of
the gofpel 5 the Chriftians were generally ignorant of
Hebrew, and confequently could not write in the ftyle
of the New Teftament. After the deftruftion of Je-
rufalem and the difperfion of the Jews, their language
muft have been blended with that of other nations, and
their vernacular phrafeology almoft entirely loft. The
language of the early fathers, though not always the
pureft claftic Greek, has no refemblance to that of the
New Teftament, not even excepting the works of the few
who had a knowledge of the Hebrew; as Origen, Epipha-
nius, and Juftin Martyr, thelaft of whom being a native
of Paleftine, might have written in a ftyle fimilar to that
of the New Teftament, had fuch a ftyle then prevailed.
He that lufpefts the New Teftament to be the forgery
of a more recent period, ought to produce fome perfon
who has employed a fimilar didtion ; but thofe who are
converfant with eaftern writings know wrell that a
foreigner, who has not been accuitomed to eaftern man¬
ners and modes of thinking from his infancy, can never
imitate with fuccefs the oriental ftyle, much lefs forge
a hiftory or an epiftle which contains a thoufand inci-
. dental allufions, which nothing but truth could fug-
geft. To imitate clofely the ftyle of the New Tefta¬
ment is even more difficult than to imitate that of any
other oriental book 5 for there is not a fingle author,
even among the Jews themfelves, fince the deftrudtion
of Jerufalem, that has compofed in a ftyle in the leaft
degree like it (z).
But though the books of the New Teftament bear fo
dole a refemblance in idiom, there is a diverfity of ftyle
which fhows them to be the work of different perfons.
Whoever reads with attention the epiftles of Paul, muft
be convinced that they were all written by the fame
author. An equal degree of fimilarity is to be found
between the gofpel and ift epiftle of John. The wri¬
tings ot St John and St Paul exhibit marks of an ori¬
ginal genius which no imitation .can ever attain. The
charadfer of Paul as a w7riter is drawm with great judge¬
ment by Michaelis : “ His mind overflows with fenti-
ment, yet lie never lofes fight of his principal objedt,
but hurried on by the rapidity of thought, difclofes fre¬
quently in the middle a conclufion to be made only at
the end. To a profound knowledge of the Old Tefta¬
ment he joins the acutenefs of philofophical w'ifdom,
wffiich he difplays in applying and expounding the fa-
. cred wrritings; and his explanations are therefore fome-
times fo new and unexpedted, that fuperficial obfervers
might be tempted to fuppofe them erroneous. The fire
of his genius, and his inattention to ftyle, occafion fre¬
quently a tw'ofold obfeurity, he being often too concife
to be underftood except by thofe to whom he immedi¬
ately wrote, and not feldom on the other hand fo full
of his fubjedt, ns to produce long and difficult parenthe-
les, and a repetition ot the fame word even in different
fenfes. With a talent for irony and fatire, he unites
the moft refined fenfibility, and tempers the feverity of
his cenfures by expreffions of tendernefs and affedtion :
VOL. XIX. Part I.
17 ] SCR
nor does he ever forget in the vehemence of his zeal Scripture
the rules of modefty and decorum. He is a writer, in v*"-”
fliort, of fo Angular and wonderful a compofition, that
it wTould be difficult to find a rival. That truly fenfi-
ble and fagacious philofopher Locke wTas of the fame
opinion, and contended that St Paul was without an
equal.”
Poems have been forged and aferibed to former ages
with fome fuccefs. Philofophical treatifes might be in¬
vented which it would be difficult to detedf ; but there
is not a fingle inftance on record where an attempt has
been made to forge a hiftory or a long epiftle, where
the fraud has not been either fully proved, or rendered
fo fufpicious that few are weak enough to believe it.
Whoever attempts to forge a hiftory or an epiftle in the
name of an ancient author, will be in great danger of
contradidring the hiftory or the manners of that age,
efpecially if he relate events which are not mentioned in
general hiftory, but fuch as refer to a fingle city, fedf,
religion, or fchool.
The difficulty of forging fuch hiftories as the gofpels,
and fuch epiftles as thofe of Paul, cannot be overcome
by all the genius, learning, and induftry, of any in¬
dividual or fociety of men that ever lived. They con¬
tain a purer fyftem of ethics than all the ancient philo-
fophers could invent: They difeover a candour and mo¬
defty unexampled : They exhibit an originality in the
chara&er of Jefus, and yet fuch a confiftency as the
imagination of our beft poets has never reached. Now
it is a very remarkable circumftance, that hiftories writ¬
ten by four different men fhould preferve fuch dignity
and confiftency, though frequently relating different ac¬
tions of Jefus, and defeending to the moft minute cir-
cumftances in his life. The feene of aftion is too ex-
tenfive, and the agreement of fadfs with the ftate of the
times as reprefented by other hiftorians is too clofe, to
admit the poffibility of forgery.
The feene of aftion is not confined to one country,
it is fucceffively laid in the greateft cities of the Roman
empire ; in Rome, in Antioch, in Corinth, in Athens,
as well as in Jerufalem and the land of Paleftine. In¬
numerable allufions are made to the manners and opi¬
nions of the Greeks, the Romans, and the Jews j and
refpefting the Jews, they extend even to the trifles and
follies of their fchools. Yet after the ftridteft examina¬
tion, the New Teftament will be found to have a won¬
derful coincidence and harmony with Jofephus, the
principal hiftorian of thefe times, and an enemy of Chxi-
ftianity.
_ It has been a queftion who the foldiers were who are And from
faid in the gofpel of Luke to have addreffed John the remarkable
Baptift in thefe words, What fhall ive do / An anfwerin?ancesof
to this queftion may be found in Jofephus L Herod ^”lcic‘ence
the tetrarch of Galilee was engaged in a war with hisjofq,hus
father-in-law Aretas, a petty king in Arabia Petnea, at and the
the very time that John was preaching in the wilder-New Tef'
nefs ; and the road from Galilee to Arabia running t^menV
through that wildernefs, the foldiers on their march had iLfivm.’
this interview with the Baptift. A coincidence like this,cap. 5.
C which feet, r, 2.
er/^e demens Romanus may perhaps be an exception. By many eminent critics it has been
thought fo like to that of the epiftle to the Hebrews, as to give room for the opinion that Clement either was the
author of that epiftle, or was the perfon who tranflated it from the Syro-Chaldaic language, in which it was orisi*
nally compofed. -007
S C K [ 18
Scripture, which has been overlooked by all the commentators,
v" --1 would not probably be attended to in a forgery.
Chap. ii. Another inftance of an agreement no Ids remarkable
^ 11‘ we fhall quote from the valuable work of Michaelis.
It has been a qudlion of fome difficulty among the
learned, who was the Ananias who commanded St Paul
to be fmitten on the mouth when he was making his de-
* A£b fence before the council in Jerufalem *. Krebs, in his
xriii. z~5. remarks taken from Jofephus, has ffiown him to have
been the fon of Nebedeni. But if fo, how can it be
reconciled with chronology, that Ananias was, at that
time, called high prieft, when it is certain from Jofe¬
phus that the time of his holding that office was much
earlier ? And how comes it to pals that St haul fays,
“ I will not, brethren, that he was the high prieft
The facerdotal garb muft have difcovered who he was:
a jeft would have ill-fuited the gravity of a tribunal ;
and a falfehood is inconfiftent with the charadler of St
Paul.
All thefe difficulties vanifh as foon as we examine t.ie
fpecial hiftory of that period : “ Ananias tne fon of Ne¬
bedeni was high prieft at the time that Helena queen
of Adiabene fupplied the Jews with corn from ligypt
during the famine which took place in the fourth year
of Claudius, mentioned in the eleventh chapter of the
Ads. St Paul therefore, who took a journey to Jeru¬
falem at that period, could not have been ignorant of
the elevation of Ananias to that dignity. Soon after
the holding of the firft council, as it is called, at Jeru¬
falem, Ananias was difpofleffed of his office, in confe-
quence of certain ads of violence between the oamari-
tans and the Jews, and fent prifoner to Rome-, but being
afterwards releafed, he returned to Jerufalem. Now from
that period he could not be called high f>ne/l in the pro¬
per fenfe of the word, though Jofephus has fometimes
given him the title of taken in the more exten-
live meaning of a pneft who had a feat and voice In
the Sanhedrim } and Jonathan, though we are not ac¬
quainted with the circumftances of his elevation, bad
been railed in the mean time to the fupreme dignity in
the Jewilh church. Between the death of Jonathan,
who was murdered by order of Felix, and the high-
prielthood of Ifmael, wffio was invefted with that dignity
by Agrippa, elapfed an interval during which the la-
cerdotal office was vacant. Now? it happened preciftly
in this interval that St Paul was apprehended in jeiufa-
lern : and, the Sanhedrim being deftitute of a prefident,
he undertook of his own authority the diloharge of that
office, which he executed with the greateft tyranny.
It is poffible therefore that St Paul, wffio had been on¬
ly a few7 days in Jerufalem, might be ignorant that A-
nanias, wffio had been difpovTeffed of the prielthood, had
taken upon himielf a truft to which he wras not entitled',
be might therefore very naturally exclaim, ‘ I wift not,
brethren, that he was the high-prielt !’ Admitting him
on the other hand to have 'been acquainted wnth the
faCl, the expreffion muft be confidered as an indirect
reproof, and a tacit refufal to recognize ufurped au¬
thority.”
Could fjch A correfpondence as this f.ffifift between
truth and falfehood, between a forgery and an authen¬
tic hiftory? or is it credible that thefe events could be
related by any perfon but a contemporaiy ?
Impreffed with the love of truth, and feeling con¬
tempt as well as deteftation at pious frauds, we hefitate
] SCR
not to acknowledge, that in fome particular fafts there Scri. ure.
is a difference either real or apparent between Jofephus' v —'
and the writers of the New Teftament. The objec- Thl^^e
tions arifing from thefe differences are of two kinds : a!fo appa.
j. Such as w7ould prove a book not to have been writ-rent incon*
ten by the author to whom it is aferibed. 2. Such asiHenckfe,
would prove that the author was miftaken, and there-
fore not divinely infpired. To the firft clafs belongs arife
the following objeftion : St Paul fays (2 Cor. xi. 32 •) overfight
that the governor of Damafcus was under Aretas the in Jofe-
king: but if we are to judge from the 18th book oflffiusJ
the Jewifh Antiquities, which correfponds with the pe¬
riod of St Paul’s journey to Damatcus, that city muft
have belonged at that time to the Romans j and what
authority could Aretas, a petty king in Arabia Petr sea,
have in fuch a city ? In anfwer to this queftion, J. G.
Hyne, in a differtation publiffied in 1755, has {howm it
to be highly probable that Aretas, again!! whom the
Romans, °not long before the death of Tiberius, made
a declaration of war, which they negledfed to put in ex¬
ecution, took the opportunity of leizing Hamaicus^
which had once belonged to his anceftors; an event
omitted by Jofephus, as forming no pait of the Jewifti
hiftory, and by the Roman hiftorians as being a matter
not flattering in itfelf, and belonging only to a diftant
province. Secondly, 1 hat Aretas w as by religion a Jew ^
nnn 1— mm-f credible, when we retied! that
Judaifm had been widely propagated in that country,,
and that even kings in Arabia helix had recognized tnc
law of Mofes. The difficulty then is fo far removed,
that it ceales to create lulpicion agamft an epifile
which has fo many evident tnarks of authenticity j and
it is onlv to be regretted that, m oicier to place t! e
fubjed! in the c lea re ft point of view7, vve- are not luf-
ficiently acquainted with the particular hiftory of IJa-'
tnafcus. ,
Examples of the fecond kind are fuch as, it allowed
their full force, might indeed prove a winei not divine¬
ly infpired, but could, afford no reafon to conclude that
he was not the author of the writings which bear his
name, fince iniftakes may be committed by the moll ac-
curate hiftotian. The chief difficulties of this nature or to his
are found in the gofpel according to St Luke, and do
not apply to the writings of MaU-hew, John, Paul, and forn]atjcn
Peter. Laying afide the idea of infpiration altogether, concerning7
let us inquire whether Luke or Jofephus be moil in-the events
titled to credit in thofe paffages where they differ 5 ^thap-
wffiich of them is moft accurate, and which of them hadj^^
the bell opportunities ol exploring the truth of the
fadls which they relate. Now Jofephus relates the fame
ftory d fferently m different parts o! his woiks, and is
fometimes equally nnftaken in them all. W e do not
recoiled! to have feen inch mconfiftencies in tire w 11-
tings of St Luke. I,uke knew the cliaradlcrs, and
witneffed many of the fadls, of which he fpeaks p and lie
could receive the bell information relpedling thole fadls
which were tranfadled in his abfence. Jofepbus was
born A. D. 37, fome years after our Saviour’s afeenfion.
Now7 it is a very important obfervation of Michaelis,.
that the period of hiftory with which mankind are leaf!
acquainted is that which includes the time of their
childhood and youth, together with the twenty or thir¬
ty years immediately preceding their birth. Concern¬
ing the affairs tranfadled during that period, we are
much more liable to fall into millakes than concerning
thole
SCR [ 19 ] SCR
f, •i ii.turp, thofe of a remoter age. The reafon is, that authentic
w—y—[torv never comes down to the period of our birth j
our knowledge of the period immediately preceding de¬
pends on hearfay ; and the events, which pafs within
the firit eighteen or twenty years of our lives, we are
too young and heedlefs to obferve with attention. . This
muft have been more remarkably the cale in the time of
Jofephus than at prefent, when there were neither daily
papers nor periodical journals to fupply the want of re¬
gular annals. There was no hiftorian from whom Jo-
lephus could derive any knowledge of the times that
immediately preceded bis birth. There is a period then
of forty or fifty years, in which, even with the mod di¬
ligent inquiry, he was expofed to error.
When we find therefore the relations of Luke and
Jofephus fo different as not to be reconciled, it would
be very unfair to determine without any further inquiry
in favour of Jofephus. Let their chara&er, and works,
and fituation, be driftly examined 5 let their tedimony
be duly weighed and compared} and then let the pre¬
ference be given to that author who, according to the
drifted rules of equity and judice, feems intitled to the
highed degree of credit. The decifion of a jury, we
fhall venture to fay, would in every indance turn out in
It5 favour of Luke.
Infy:ration Having thus afcertained the authenticity of the books
of die New 0f the New- Tedament, the next thing to be confidered
Teftament, |s tjlejr Jnfpiration. It is certainly of fome importance
to know how far the apodles and evangelids were gui¬
ded in their writings by the immediate influence of the
fpirit of God •, though this knowledge, if attainable, is
not equally important with that of the authenticity of
thefe writings. Michaelis indeed afferts, that the divi¬
nity of the New Tedament may be proved whether we
can evince it to be "written by immediate infpiration or
* Chap. iii. not *. “ The quedion (fays he), whether the books of
4 1* the New Tedament are infpired ? is not fo important as
the quedien, whether they are genuine ? The truth of
our religion depends upon the latter, not abfolutely on
the former. JJad the Deity infpired not a {ingle book
of the New Tedament, but left the anodles and evan¬
gelids without any other aid than that of natural abili¬
ties to commit what they knew to writing, admitting
their works to be authentic, and poffeffed of a fufficient
degree of credibility, the Chridian religion would dill
Ko/necef- be well founded. The miracles by which it is con-
fary to the firmed would equally demondrate its truth, even if the
truth of perfons who atteded them were not infplred, but {imply
Chriftianity hurnan witneffes •, and their divine authority is never
to "the oil prefuppofed, when we difcufs the quedion of miracles,
nion of but merely their credibility as human evidence. If the
•Michaelii.) miracles are true which the evangelids relate, the doc¬
trines of Chrid recorded in the gofpels are proved to
be the infallible oracles of God j and, even if we admit
the apodles to be midaken in certain not effential cir-
cumdances, yet as the main points of the religion which
Chrid commiflioned them to preach are fo frequently
repeated, their epidles would indruft us as well in the
tenets of the Chridian fydem, as the ivorks of Maclau-
rin in the philofophy of Newton. It is poffible there¬
fore to doubt, and even deny, the infpiration of the New
Tedament, and yet be fully perfuaded of the truth of
the Chridian religion : and many really entertain thefe
fentiments either publicly or in private, to whom we
diould render great injudice, if we ranked them in the script-art-
clafs of unbelievers. ' v ""
“ Yet the Chridian religion would be attended with
difficulty, if our principium cognofcendi reded not on firm¬
er ground ; and it might be objefted, that fufficient
care had not been taken for thofe whole confciences
were tender, and who were anxioully fearful of mida-
king the fmalled of the divine commands. The chief
articles indeed of Chridianity are fo frequently repeat¬
ed, both by Chrid and his apodles, that even were the
New Tedament not infpired, we could entertain no
doubt of the following doftrines: ‘ Jefus was the Mef-
fias of the Jews, and an infallible meffengerof God : he
died for our iniquity ; and by the fatisfaftion made by
his death we obtain remiffion of fins, if on our part be
faith and amendment of life : the Levitical law is abo-
lidied; and moral precepts, with the ceremonies of Bap-
tifm and the Supper of the Lord, are appointed in its
dead ; after the prefent follows an everlading life, in
which the virtuous diall be rewarded and the wicked
punifhed, and where Chrid himfelf diall be the Judge.’
“ To the epidles indeed (fays Michaelis), infpiration
is of real confequence 5 but with refpeft to the hidori-
cal books, viz. the Gofpels and the Afts of the A-
podles, we diould really be no lofers if we abandoned the
fydem of infpiration, and in fome refpefts have a real
advantage. We ffiould be no lofers, if we confidered
the apodles in hidorical faffs as merely human witneffeS,
as Chrid himfeif has done in faying, ‘ Ye alfo diall bear
witnefs, becaufe ye have been with me from the begin¬
ning And no one that attempts to convince an un-*I°hnxV'
believer of the truth of Chridianity, would begin his
demondration by prefuppofing a doftrine which his ad-
verfary denies, but would ground his arguments on the
credibility of the evangelids as human hidorians, for the
truth of the miracles, the death, and the refurreclion of
Chrid. Even thofe who examine the grounds of their
faith for their own private conviftion, mud treat the
evangelids as human evidence 3 fince it would be argu¬
ing in a circle to conclude that the fafts recorded in the
gofpels are true, becaufe they are infpired, when ive
conclude the Scriptures to be infpired in confequence of
their contents. In thefe cafes, then, we are obliged to
confider the evangelids as human evidence $ and it would
be no detriment to the Chridian caufe to confider them
at all times as fuch in matters of hidorical faft. We
find it noivhere exprefsly recorded that the public tranf-
aftions which the apoftles knew by their own experi¬
ence, and of which St Imke informed himfelf by dili¬
gent inquiry, fhould be particular objefts of divine in¬
fpiration. We fliould even be confiderable gainers, in
adjuding the harmony of the gofpels, if we were permit¬
ted to fuppofe that fome one of the evangelids had com¬
mitted an immaterial error, and that St John has refti-
fied fome trifling midakes in the preceding gofpels.
The mod dangerous objeftions which can be made to
the truth of our religion, and fuch as are mod difficult
to anfwer, are thofe drawn from the different relations
of the four evangelids.” TlS
Before any inquiry is made refpefting the infpiration Different
of the books of the New Tedament, it is neceffary to meanings'0f-
determine the meaning of the term; for theologians w ^
have given to it a variety of fignifications. Mod of the2;^ " *
German divines make it to confid in an infufion of
C 2 ’words
V
Scripture.
119
The proof
of it de¬
fends on
the decla¬
rations of
Chrift and
his apoftle
120
The decla
rations of
Chrift.
* Matt, x,
zy, 20.
SCR
words as well as ideas. Luther, Beza, and
reftrift it to ideas alone. Doddridge underftands by it
an intervention of the Deity, by which the natural fa¬
culties of the mind were directed to the difcovery of
truth. Warburton and Law think it was a negative
intervention to preferve the facred writers from eft’ential
errors. Some believe every circumflance was didb’.ted
by the Holy Ghoft ; others fuppofe that no fupernatural
aiiiftance -was granted except in the epitfolary writings.
See Inspiration.
As there is an evident diftimflion between infpiration
and revelation, and as the origin of the Chriftian reli¬
gion may be flill proved divine, even though it were de¬
nied that thofe who record its fadfs and dodlrines were
infpired in the aft of writing, it will be mo ft judicious
and fafe to employ the wTord infpiration in that fenfe
which can be moft ealily defended and fupported. By
doing this, much may be gained and nothing loft. It
is difficult to prove to a deift that the wmrds of Scrip¬
ture are divine, becaufe be fees that every writer has
words and phrafes peculiar to himfeif. It is difficult
alfo to prove that the ideas wrere infufed into the mind
of the authors while they were engaged in the aft ol
writing \ becaufe concerning fafls they appeal not to
divine infpiration, but declare what tlmj have feen and
heard. In reafoning they add their own fentiments to
what they had received from the Lord, and fubjoin, ef-
pecially in their epiftles, things not connefted with reli¬
gion. The definition wdiich Doddridge gives, feems
applicable to ordinary gifts or the ufual endowments of
rational creatures, rather than to the extraordinary gifts
of the Holy Spirit, which w'ere beftow'ed on the apoftles.
Thofe who maintain that every faff or circumftance wfas
fuggefted by divine infpiration, wall find it no eafy mat¬
ter to prove their pofition. The opinion of Warburton
and Law, with proper explanations, feems moft probable.
The opinion of Grotius, that only the epiftles w?ere in¬
fpired, may be eafily refuted.
The proof of the authenticity of the New Teftament
depends on human teflimony : The proof of its infpi¬
ration is derived from the declaration of infpired per-
fons.
In proving that the New Teftament is infpired, we
prefuppofe its authenticity, that the facred books were
written by the apoftles whofe names they bear, and
that they have been conveyed to us pure and uncor¬
rupted. This we have already attempted to prove, and
e. we hope with fuccefs. The evidence of infpiration is
the teftimony of Chrift and his apoftles, which wre re¬
ceive as credible, becaufe they confirmed their do&rines
by miracles. From the important million of Cbrift and
his apoftles, w7e infer that every power w7as bellowed
wdiich divine wifdom thought expedient; and from their
conduct we conclude, that it is morally impoflible that
they could lay claim to any powers which they did not
poffefs. It is proper therefore to inquire into the de¬
clarations of Chrift and his apoftles concerning the na¬
ture, degree, and extent, of the infpiration beltow7ed on
the writers of the facred books.
If w7e confider Chrift’s more immediate promifes of
inspiration to the apoftles, we (hall find that he has
given them, in the moft proper fenfe of the word,, at
three feveral periods, iff, When he fent the apoftles to
preach the gofpel * ; zdly, In holding a public difeourfe
relating to the gofpel, at which were prefent a conli-
[ 20 ] SCR
Salmafius, derable multitude •, 3dly, In his prophecy of the de- Scripture,
ftruftion of Jerufalem f. When he fent the apoftles to
preach the gofpel, he thus addreffed them : “ When |
they deliver you up, take no thought how or what yexxif’l^) t ’
fhall fpeak, for it thall be given you in that fame hour
what ye Iball fpeak •, for it is not you that fpeak, but
the fpirit of your father that fpeaketh in you.” The
fame promife was made almoft in the lame words in the
prefence of an immenfe multitude (Luke xii. 11, 12.).
From thefe paffages it has been urged, that if the a-
poftles were to be infpired in the prefence of magiftrates
in delivering fpeeches, which were loon to be forgotten,
it is furely reafonable to conclude that they would be
infpired when they were to compofe a ftandard of faith
for the ufe of all futu^ generations of Chriftians. If
this conclufion be fairly deduced, it would follow that
the writings of the New Teftament are the dictates of
infpiration, not only in the doctrines and precepts, but
in the very words. But it is a conclufion to which
fincere Chriftians have made objections 5 for, fay they,
though Chrift promifes to aflift his apoftles in cafes of
great emergency, where their own prudence and forti¬
tude could not be fufficient, it does not follow that he
would dictate to them thofe fads which they knew al¬
ready, or thofe reafonings which their own calm reflec¬
tion might fupply. Befides, lay they, if the New Tef¬
tament was dictated by the Holy Spirit, and only pen¬
ned by the apoftles, what reafon can be given for the
care with which Chrift inftruCted them both during his
miniftry and after his crucifixion in thole things per¬
taining to the kingdom of God ? I2I
In anfwer to this, we may obferve, that though it be Proper idea
difficult to prove that the identical words of the NewofiHpira-
Teftament were diClated by the Holy Spirit, or the traintlon*
of ideas infufed into the minds of the facred writers,
there is one fpecies of infpiration to which the New
Teftament has an undoubted claim. It is this, that the
memories of the apoftles w7ere ftrengthened and their
underftandings preferved from falling into effential errors.
This we prove from thefe words of our Saviour, “ and
I will pray the Father, and he will give you another
comforter, that he may abide with you for ever. He
{hall teach you all things, and bring all things to your
remembrance whatfoever I have laid unto you * John xir.
This promife was furely not reftrained to the day ofI<5»26*
Pentecoft : it muft have been a permanent gift, enabling
the apojlles at all times to remember with accuracy the
difeourfes of our Saviour. When the apoftles there¬
fore (Matthew and John) relate thofe precepts of Chrift
which they themfelves had heard, they write indeed
from memory, but under the protection of the Ipirit
who fecures them from the danger of miftake : and we
muft of courfe conclude that their gofpels are infpired.
Were we called upon more particularly to declare
what parts of the New Teftament we believe to be in¬
fpired, we would anfwer, The doCtrines, the precepts,
and the prophecies, every thing effential to the Chriftian
religion. From thefe the idea of infpiration is infepa-
rable. As to the events, the memory of the apoftles
was fufficient to retain them. If this opinion be juft,
it would enable us to account for the difcrepancies be¬
tween the facred writers, which are chiefly confined to
the relation of faCIs and events.
All the books of the New Teftament were originally
written in Greek, except the Gofpel according to Mat¬
thew
Scripture.
117,
Language
in which
the New
Teftament
was com-
pofech.
my the
greateft
part of it is
written in
Greek.
Micbaelis,
vol. i. chap
iv. fedh. I.
p. xoi.
SCR [
thew and the epiftle to the Hebrews, which there is
reafon to believe were compofed in the Syro-Chaldaic
language, which in the New Teftament is called He¬
brew.
Various reafons have been affigned why the greateft
part of the New Teftament was written in Greek ; but
the true reafon is this, It was the language beft under-
ftood both by writers and readers. Had St Paul
written to a community in the Roman province of
Africa, he might have written perhaps in Latin ; but
epiftles to the inhabitants of Corinth, Galatia, Ephefus,
Philippi, and Theflalonica, to Timothy, Titus, and
Philemon, from a native of Tarfus, could hardly be ex¬
pelled in any other language than Greek. The fame
may be faid of the epiftles of St Peter, which are ad-
dreffed to the Chriftians of different countries, who had
no other language in common than the Greek j and
like wife of the epiftles of St James, who wrote to Jews,
that lived at a diftance from Paleftine, and were igno¬
rant of Hebrew. The native language of St Luke, as
well as of Theophilus, to whom he addreifed his gofpel,
and A£ts of the apoftles, appears to have been Greek j
and that St John wrote his gofpel in that language,
and not in Hebrew, is by no means a matter of furprife,
fince he wrote at Ephefus.
With refpeft to the epiftle to the Romans, it may
be afked indeed wby St Paul did not write in Latin ?
Now, whoever propofes this queftion, muft prefuppofe
that St Paul was matter of the Latin language in fuch
a degree as to find no difficulty in writing it ; a matter
which remains to be proved. It is very probable that
St Paul was acquainted with the Latin •, but between
underftanding a language, and being able to write it,
there is a very material difference. As St Paul was a
native of Tarfus, his native language was Greek } he
had travelled during feveral years through countries in
which no other language was fpoken, and when he ad-
dreffed the Roman centurion at Jerufalem, he fpoke
not Latin, but Greek. Is it extraordinary, then, that
in writing to the inhabitants of Rome he fhould have
ufed a language which \vas there fo generally under-
ftood ? It has been long remarked, that Greek was at
that time as well known in Rome as French in any
court of modern Europe ; that according to Juvenal
even the female fex made ufe of Greek as the language
of familiarity and paffion ; and that in letters of friend-
fliip Greek words and phrafes were introduced with
greater freedom than French expreflions in German
letters, as appears from Cicero’s epiftles to Atticus, and
from thofe of Auguftus preferved in the works of
Suetonius. To this muft be added a material circum-
ftancc, that a great part of the Roman Chriftians con-
fifted of native Jews, who were better acquainted with
Greek than with Latin, as either they themfelves or
their anceftors had come from Greece, Afia Minor, or
Egypt, in which Greek was the language of the coun¬
try. At leatl they read the Bible in that language, as
no Latin tranflation of the Old Teftament at that time
exifted ; and the Chriftian church at that period con¬
fining chiefly of Jews, the heathen converts in Rome
were of courfe under the neceftity of accuftoming them-
felves to the Greek language. In fhort, St Paul in his
epiftle to the Romans made ufe of a language in which
alone thofe who were ignorant of Hebrew could read
the Bible. What has been here advanced refpefting the
21 ]
SCR
epiftle to the Romans is equally applicable to the Greek Scripture,^
of St Mark, on the fuppofttion that it was written at' ^ “**
Rome.
To the above arguments may be added the example
of Jofephus, who, as well as the apoftles, was by birth
a Jew. He even lived in Rome, which is more than
can be faid of St Paul and St Mark, who refided there
only a certain time : he was likewife younger than
either; he came to Italy at an age which is highly
fuitable to the learning of a language, and previous to
that period had fpent feveral years in the Roman camp.
The Jewifh antiquities, the hiftory of the Jewifh war,
and the account of his own life, he wrote undoubtedly
with a view of their being read by the Romans ; and
yet he compofed all thefe writings in Greek. He ex-
prefles his motive for writing his Greek account of the
Jewifh war in the following terms : “ That having writ¬
ten in his native language (i. e. the Hebrew dialed! at
that time fpoken) a hiftory of the war, in order that
Parthians, Babylonians, Arabians, Adiabenes, and the
Jews beyond the Euphrates, might be informed of thofe
events, he was now refolved to write for the Greeks
and Romans, who had not been engaged in the cam¬
paigns, a more certain account than had hitherto been
given.” The motives which induced Jofephus to
write in Greek are fully as applicable to St Paul and St
Mark.
Michaelis has thus charadlerized the ftyle of the New Michaelti,-
Teftament. “ The New Teftament (fays he) was writ-vol. i.
ten in a language at that time common among the Jews,chap- w.
which may be named Hebraic Greek j the firft traces
of which we find in the tranflation of the LXX.
“ Every man acquainted with the Greek language,Is full of
who had never heard of the New Teftament, muft im- Hebraifms,
mediately perceive, on reading only a few lines, that
the ftyle is widely different from that of the claflic au¬
thors. We find this charadter in all ihe books of the
New Teftament in a greater or lefs degree, but we
muft not therefore conclude that they poffefs an uni-
formity of ftyle. The harfheft Hebraifms, which ex¬
tended even to grammatical errors in the government of
cafes, are the diftinguiftring marks of the book of Re¬
velation ; but they are accompanied with tokens of ge¬
nius and poetical enthufiafm of which every reader muft;
be fenfible who has tafte and feeling. There is no. tranf¬
lation of it which is not read with pleafure even in th,e
days of childhood j and the very faults of grammar are
fo happily placed as to produce an agreeable effedl. The
gofpels of Sc Matthew and St Mark have ftrong marks
of this Hebraic ftyle *, the former has hardier Hebr^ifms
than the latter, the fault of which may be afcribed to
the Greek tranftator, who has made too literal a ver-
fion, and yet the gofpel of St Mark is written in worfe
language, and in a manner that is lefs agreeable. The
epiftles of St James and St Jude are fomewhat better j
but even thefe are full of Hebraifms, and betray in other
refpedls a certain Hebrew tone. St Luke has in feveral
paflages written pure and claftic Greek, of which the
firft four verfes of his gofpel may be given as an inftance ;
in the fequel, where he defcribes the aflions of Chrift,
he has very harfh Hebraifms, yet the ftyle is more
agreeable than that of St Matthew or St Mark. In the
A6ls of the apoftles he is hot free from Hebraifms, which
he feems to have never ftudioufty avoided; but his pe¬
riods are more claftically turned, and icmetimes poffefs-
bcauiy
Scripture.
I25
and fo¬
reign idi¬
oms.
126
Peculiari¬
ties in the
compofr-
tion.
Dr Camp¬
bell's Preli¬
minary
Differta- .
iions to his
Travjla-
tions of the
Gofpcls
SCR [2
beauty devoid of art. St John has numerous, though
not uncouth, Hebraifms both in his gofpel and epiftles j
but he has written in a fmooth and flowing language,
and furpaffes all the Jewifli writers in the excellence ot
narrative. St Paul again is entirely different from them
all; his ffyle is indeed neglected and full of Hebraifms,
but he has avoided the concife and verfe-like conftruc-
tion of the Hebrew language, and has upon the whole a
confiderable (hare of the roundnefs of Grecian compoli-
tion. It is evident that he was as perfedtly acquainted
with the Greek manner of expreflion as with the He¬
brew, and he has introduced them alternately, as either
the one or the other fuggefted itfelf the firft, or was the
bed approved.”
Michaelis has (hown that the New Teftament not
only contains Hebraifms but Rabbinifms, Syriafms,
Chaldaifms, Arabians, Latinifms, and Perfian words,
of rvhich he has exhibited many fpecimens. To theolo¬
gians, whofe duty it certainly is to ftudy the language of
the New Teflament with attention, we would ftrenuouf-
ly recommend the perufal of this work, which in the
Hnglifh tranflation is one of the moft valuable acceffions
to fcriptural criticifm that has yet appeared. We fpeak
of the Engliflr tranflation, which the large and judicious
notes of Mr Marlh has rendered infinitely fuperior to the
original.
To the obfervations which have been made refpe£ling
the language of the New Teftament, a few remarks may
be added concerning the peculiarities of the ftyle and
manner of the facred writers, particularly the hiftorians.
Thefe remarks extend to the Old Teftament as well as
to the New.—Thejfr/? quality for which the facred hi-
ftory is remarkable is fimplicity in the ftnnffure of
the fentences. The firft five verfes of Genefis furnifh
an example, which confift of eleven fentences. I he
fubftantivss are not attended by adje&ives, nor the verbs
by adverbs, no lynonymas, no fuperlatives, no effort at
exprefling things in a bold, emphatical, or uncommon
manner.
2. The fecond quality is fimplicity of fentiment, par¬
ticularly in the Pentateuch, arifing from the very nature
of the early and uncultivated ftate offociety about which
that book is converfant.
3. Simplicity of defign. 1 he fubject of the narra¬
tive lo engrofl’es the attention of the writer, that he
himfelf is as nobody. He introduces nothing as from
himfelf, no remarks, doubts, conjeftures, or reafonings.
Our Lord’s biographers particularly excel in this qua¬
lity. This quality of ftyle we meet with in Xenophon
and Ctefar.
The Evangelifts may be ranked next to Genefis for
fimplicity of compofition in the fentences. John and
Matthew are diftinguilhed for it more than Mark and
Luke. But the fentiment is not fo remarkable for
fimplicity in the Evangelift as the Pentateuch. Ihe
reafons of this difference are, the ftate of the Jews was
totally changed ; their manners, euftoms, &c. fplit into
cfaftions both in religion and politics. 2. T he objefl of
our Lord’s miniftry, which is the great fubjeft of the
gofpels, was to inculcate a doilrine and morality with
which none of their fyftems perfedftly coincided : befides,
being conftantly oppofed by all the great men, the
greater part of his hiftory confifts of inftruftions and dif-
putes. 3. As it is occupied with what our Saviour faid
and what he did, this makes two diftinftions of ftyle
2
2 ] SCR
and manner; that of our Saviour, and the facred pen- Scripture.
man’s. In their own charafter, they neither explain
nor command, promife nor threaten, praile nor blame.
They generally omit the names of our Lord s enemies;
thus directing our hatred at the vices they committed,
not at the perfons. They never mention fuch pei ions
without neceflity } which is the cafe with the high-prieft,
Pilate, Herod, and Judas: the three firft for the chro¬
nology, the fourth to do juftice to the eleven.
Herodias is indeed mentioned with dilhonour*, but her
crime was a public one. On the other hand, all perfons
diftinguiftied for any thing virtuous are carefully men¬
tioned, Jofeph of Arimathea, Nicodemus, Zaccheus,
Bartimeus, Jairus, Lazarus, Mary, and Martha. They
record their own faults (Peter’s, Thomas’s), nor do they
make any merit of their confefiion. In one uniform
ft rain they relate the moft fignal miracles and moft ordi¬
nary fa£ts. _ .
From the narrative is excluded that quality of ftyle
which is called animation. Nothing that difeovers paf-
fion in the writer or is calculated to excite the paftions
of the reader. Every thing is diretted to mend the
heart. _ ^ .
But in the difeourfes and dialogues of our Saviour
the expreflion, without lofing any thing of its fimplicity,
is often remarkable for Ipirit and energy. Refpe£ling
harmony and fmoothnefs, qualities which only add an
external polifh to language, they had not the leaft feii-
citude.
As to elegance, there is an elegance which refillts
from the ufe of fuch words as are moft in ufe vith
thofe who are accounted fine writers, and from luch
arrangements in the words and claufes as have generally
obtained their approbation. This is difclaimed by the
facred authors.
But there is an elegance of a fuperior order more
nearly ccnne6Ied with the fentiment } and in this fort
of elegance they are not deficient. In all tne onental
languages great ufe is made of tropes, efpecialty meta¬
phors. " When the metaphors employed bear a ftrong
refemblance, they confer vivacity : if they be borrowed
from objects which are naturally agreeable, beautiful,
or attractive, they add alfo elegance. The Evangehfis
furnifli us with many examples of this kind of vivacity
and elegance* Our Lord borrows tropes fiom corn¬
fields, vineyards, gardens, &c. .
As a valuable appendage to this part of our fiibjert,
we {ball fubjoin Dr Campbell’s method of ftudyipg the
books of the New 'Teftament. This we offer to our
readers as a beautiful inftance of the judicious applica¬
tion of philofophy to facred fludies. It is the fame
method of difeovering truth by analyfis and induction,
which was purfued by Sir Ifaac Newton with fuch afto-
nifhing fuccefs, which fince his time has been unhormly
praCtifed in natural philofophy, and has been alfo ap¬
plied to chemiftry, to medicine, to natural hiftory, and
to the philofophy of mind, by the ingenious Dr Reid.
This is the path of found philofophy, which can alone
lead to the difeovery of truth. In following it, our
progrefs may be flowr, but it will be fare. If all theolo¬
gians would fteadily adhere to it, we might then enter¬
tain the pleafing hope of difearding forever thofe ab.urd
fyftems of religion which are founded on Angle paffages
and detached fragments of fc rip lure, and of eftablifhing
opinions and doClrines cn a folid foundation.
u 1.10
127
Proper me¬
thod of
thidying
the New
Teftament
by analyfis
and induc¬
tion.
SCR
t
]
SCR
Sc ripturr.
128
Dr Camp¬
bell’s me-
« !. To get acquainted with each writer’s ilyle j to
obferve his manner of compofition, both in fsntences and
paragraphs; to remark the words and. phrafes peculiar
1 ell’s me. to him, and the peculiar application that he may ^me¬
thod. Prel. times make of ordinary words-, for there are lew or thorn
X>i[% to the writers who have not their peculiarities in ail the relpeeis
now mentioned. This acquaintance with each can be
attained only by the frequent and attentive reading of
his wrorks in his own language.
« 2. To inquire into the character, the fituatxon, <a.nd
the office of the writer, the time, the place, and the
occafion of his writing, and the people for whofe imme¬
diate ufe he originally intended his work. Every one
of thefe particulars will fometimes ferve to elucidate ex-
preffions otherwife obfcureor doubtful. I his knowledge
may in part be learned from a diligent and reiterated
perufal of the book itfelf, and in part be gathered -^oni
what authentic, or at leaft probable, accounts have eeen
tranfmitted to us concerning the compilement of the
canon. . ., .
“ 3. The laid general direftion is, to confider _ the
principal fcope of the book, and the particulars chiefly
obfervable in the method by which the writer has pur-
pofed to execute bis delign. This diredtion is particu¬
larly applicable to the epitlolary writings, e»pecially
thole of Paul.
“ If a particular word or phrafe occur, which ap¬
pears obfcure, perhaps unintelligible, the firil thing we
ought to do, if fadshed that the reading is genuine, is
to confult the context, to attend to^ the manner where¬
in the term is introduced, whether in a chain of reafon-
ing or in a hiftorical narration, in a defcription, or in¬
cluded in an exhortation or command. As the conclu-
flon is inferred from the premiffes, or as from two 01*
more known truths a third unknown or unobferved be¬
fore may fairly be deduced fo from fuch attention to
the fentence in connedlion, the import of an expreffion,
in itfelf obfcure or ambiguous, will fometimes with mo¬
ral certainty be difcovered. I his, however, will not
always anfwer.
“ 5. If it do not, let the fecond confideration be, whe¬
ther the term or phrafe be one of the writer’s peculia¬
rities. Jf fo, it comes naturally to be inquired, what
is the acceptation in which he employs it in other places \
If the fenfe cannot be precifely the Erne in the pafiage
under review, perhaps, by an eafy and natural metaphor
or other trope, the common acceptation may give rife
to one which perfectly luits the paflage in queftion.-—-
Recourfe to the other places wherein the word or phrafe
occurs in the fame author is of conildtrable ufe, though
the term ihould not be peculiar to him.
“ 6. But thirdly, if there fliould be nothing in the
fime writer that can enlighten the place, let recourfe be
had to the parallel paflages, if there be any fuch, in the
other facred writers. By parallel paffages, I mean
thofe places, if the difficulty occur in hiftory, wherein
the fame or a fimilar ilory, miracle, or event, is related ;
if in teaching or reafoning, thofe parts wherein the
fame argument or doilrine is treated, or the fame pa¬
rable propounded ; and in moral leiTons, tbofe wherein
the fame clafs of duties is recommended ; or, if the dif¬
ficulty be found in a quotation from the Old Teftament,
let the parallel paffage in the book referred to, both in
the original Hebrew, and in the Greek verfion, be con-
fulled.
“ 7. But if in thefe there be found nothing that can Scripture.
throw- light on the expreffion of which we are in doubt, ' ~v "rr ’
the fourth reccurfe is to all the places wherein the word
or phrafe occurs in the New Tellament, and in the Sep-
tuagint verfion of the Old, adding to thefe the confidera-
tion of the import of the Hebrew or Chaldaic word,
whofe place it occupies, and the extent of fignification,
of which in different occurrences fuch Hebrew or Chal¬
daic term is fufceptible.
“ 8. Pei haps the term in queflion is one of thofe
which very rarely occur in the New Teftament, or thofe
called Myofttvat, only once read in Scripture, and
not found at ail in the tranflation of the Seventy. Se¬
veral fuch words there are. There is then a neceffity,
in the fifth place, for recurring to the ordinary accepta¬
tion of the term in claffical authors. This is one of
thofe cafes wherein the interpretation given by the ear-
licit Greek fathers deferves particular notice. In this,
however, I limit myfelf to thofe comments wherein they
give a literal expofition of the facred text, and do not
run into vifion and allegory. II9
The manuferipts of tire New Teftament are the na-jvTami-
tural fource from which the genuine readings of the feripts of
Greek Teftament are to be drawn. The printed edi-^^ew^
tions are either copies of more ancient editions, or of
manuferipts} and they have no further authority than as
they correfpond to the manuferipts from which they
were originally taken. By manuferipts of the New Te-
Itament, we mean thofe, only which were written before
the invention of printing. The molt ancient of thefe
are loft, and there is no manufeript now extant older
than the fixth century. Few contain the whole New
Teftament j fome contain the four gofpels •, fome the
A£ts of the Apoftles and Epiftles *, and others the book
of Revelation. The greateft number are thofe which con¬
tain the firil part j thofe which have the fecond, or the
fir ft and fecond together, are like wife numerous 5 but
thofe of the third are extremely few. It muft be added
alio, that in many manuferipts thofe epiftles ar& omitted
whofe divine authority w-as formerly doubted.
There are many manuferipts which have been exa¬
mined only for a fingle text, luch as 1 John v. 7. or at
leaft for a very {mail number. Others have been exa¬
mined from the beginning to the end, but not com¬
pletely and in refpect of all the readings. A third clafs
confifts of fuch as either have been, or are faid to have
been, completely and accitrately collated. But this re¬
quires fuch phlegmatic patience, that we can hardly ex-
pe£l to find in critical catalogues all the various read¬
ings which have been only once collated. Wetftein, in
collating many manuferipts anew-, made difeoveries
which had entirely efcapcd the notice of his predeceffbrs.
The fourth clafs confifts of fuch as have been com¬
pletely and accurately collated more than once : hut
here alfo we are in danger of being led into error.—
When various readings are transferred from one critical
edition to another, as from that of Gregory to MillV
edition, and from tbs latter to thofe of Bengel and
Wetftein, the manuferipts muft fometimes be fallely
named, and various readings muft frequently be omit¬
ted. And as Wetftein has marked by ciphers manu¬
feripts that in former editions had been denoted by their
initial letters, he could fcarcely avoid fubftituting, in fome
cafes, one figure inftead of another, i he fifth clafs,
which is by far the moil valuable, confifts of fuch as
have
S C K l H 1 SCR
Scripture, have been printed word for word, and therefore form an
original edition of the Greek Teftament. We can boaft
but of a very few manufcripts of this kind. Hearne
printed at Oxford, in 17x5, the a£ts of the Apoftles in
Greek and Latin from the Codex Laudianus 3.; Knit-
tel has annexed to his edition of Ulphilas, p. 53—118,
a copy of two very ancient fragments preferved in the
library of Wolfenbuttle •, the one of the four Gofpels
in general, the other of St Luke and St John, Woide
printed in 1786 the Codex Alexandrinus, a manufcript
of great antiquity, which lhall afterwards be more
fully defcribed 5 and the Univerfity of Cambridge has
refolved to publilh, in a fimilar manner, the Cod.
Cant. I. or, as it is fometimes called, thfe Codex Bezre,
the care of which is intrufted to Dr Kipling, a publica¬
tion which will be thankfully received by every friend
to facred criticifm. It was the intention of the Abbe
Spoletti, a few years ago, to publifh the whole of the
celebrated Codex Vaticanus •, which would likewife have
been a moft valuable acceflion, fince a more important
manufcript is hardly to be found in all Europe. He
delivered for this purpofe a memorial to the pope ; but
the defign was not put into execution, either becaufe
the pope refufed his affent or the abbe abandoned it
himfelf. See the Oriental Bible, vol. xxii. n° 333. and
vol. xxiii. n° 348.
Michaelis’s “ A very valuable library,” fays Michaelis, “ might
propofal be compofed of the impreffions of ancient manufcripts,
of taking an wkic]^ though too expenfive for a private perfon, thould
oTancient be admitted into every univerfity colleftion, efpecially
manu- the Alexandrian and Cambridge manufcripts, to which
icripts, I would add, if it w'ere now poflible to procure it,
v°l. ii. Hearne’s edition of the Codex Laudianus 3. A plan
p' lS2‘ of this fort could be executed only in England, by a
private fubfcription, where a zeal is frequently difplay-
ed in literary undertakings that is unknown in other
countries ; and it were to be wilhed that the project
were begun before length of time has rendered the ma-
nufcripfs illegible, and the attempt therefore fruitlefs.
Ten thoufand pounds would go a great way towards
the fulfilling of this requeft, if the learned themfelves
did not augment the difficulty of the undertaking, by
adding their own critical remarks, and endeavouring
thereby to recommend their publications, rather than by
prefenting to the public a faithful copy of the original.
Should pofterity be putin poffeflion of faithful impreflions,
of important manufcripts, an acquifition which would
render the higheft fervice to facred criticifm, all thefe
editions of the New Teftament ftiould be regulated on-
the fame plan as Hearne’s edition ot the A£ts of the
Apoftles.” It muft be highly flattering to.the patrio¬
tic fpirit of an Englilhman to near the encomiums which
learned foreigners have fo profufely bellowed on our li¬
berality in fupporting works of genius and learning
and public utility. The plan which Michaelis propofes
to us, in preference to all the other nations in Europe, Scripture,
is noble and magnificent, and would certainly confer im-
mortality on thofe men who would give it their patron¬
age and affiftance.
There are many ancient manufcripts, efpecially in
Italy, which have never been collated, but lie ftill un¬
explored. Here is a field where much remains to be
done. See Marfti’s Notes to Michaelis, vol. ii. p. 643.
Michaelis has given a catalogue of ancient manufcripts,
amounting in number to 292, to which he has added a
fhort account of each. In this place we (hall confine
our oblervations to the moft celebrated, the Alexandrian
and Vatican manufcripts, which we have chiefly extract¬
ed from Michaelis. r ,T
The Alexandrian manufcript confifts of four volumes •, Account of
the firft three of which contain the Old Teftament, the the Alexat*-
fourth the New Teftament, together with the firft Epi-cin^’\™a'
file of Clement to the Corinthians, and a fragment of the11U 11"
fecond. In the New Teftament, which alone is the ob-
jeft of our prefent inquiry, is wanting the beginning as
far as Matthew xxv. 6. e vvpqnos i^i-vca ; likewife from
John vi. 50. to viii. 52. and from 2 Cor. iv. 13. to xii. 7.
It muft likewife be obferved, that the Pfalms are pre¬
ceded by the epiftle of Athartafius to Marcellinus, and
followed by a catalogue, containing thofe which are to
be ufed in prayer for each hour, both of the day and of
the nightalio by 14 hymns, partly apocryphal, partly
biblical, the llth of which is an hymn in praife of the
Virgin Mary, entitled ftetgttis r/is S-soroxa : fur¬
ther, the Hypothcfes Eufebii are annexed to the Pfalms,
and his Canones to the Gofpels. It is true, that this
has no immediate reference to the New Teftament, but
may have influence in determining the antiquity of the
manufcript itfelf.
It has neither accents nor marks of afpiration j it is
written with capital, or, as they are called, uncial letters,
and has very few abbreviations. There are no inter¬
vals between the words; but the fenfe of a paflage is
fometimes terminated by a point, and fometimes by a
vacant fpace. _ Here arifes a fufpicion that the copyift
did not underftand Greek, becaufe thefe marks are
fometimes found even in the middle of a word, for in-
ftance Levit. v. 4. »j for tp.txrfi, and Numb. xiii.
29. Ycr»)£.
This manufcript was prefented to Charles I. in 1628,
by Cyrillus Lucaris patriarch of Conftantinople. Cy-
rillus himfelf has given the following account; “ We
know7 fo much of this manufcript of the holy writings of
the Old and New Teftament, that Thecla an Egyptian
lady of diftindftion (nobilis fcemina JEgyptia) wrote it
with her ow7n hand 1300 years ago (a). She lived foon
after the council of Nice. Her name was formerly at
the end of the book ; but w'htn Chriftianity was fubver-
ted in Egypt by the errors of Mahomet, the books of
the Chriftians fuffered the fame fate, and the name of
Thecla
(a) He wrote this in the year 1628. According to this account, then, the manufcript muft have been written
in 328 *, a date to wffiich fo many weighty objections may be made, that its moft ftrenuous advocates will hardly
undertake to defend it. But this error has furnilhed Oudin with an opportunity of producing many arguments
againft the antiquity of the Codex Alexandrinus, which feem to imply, that Grabe and others, who have referred it
to the fourth century, fuppofe it to have been written in the above-mentioned year. Now it is probable, that the
inference which has been deduced from the account of Cyrillus is more than he himfelf intended to exprefs, as he
.relates that Thecla lived after the council of Nice.
I
SCR [
Sctfpture. Thecla was expunged. But oral tradition of no very
^ancient date (memoria et traditio recens) has preferved
the remembrance of it.
But the reader will fee that this account is merely
traditional. Dr Semler very properly obferves, that
there is no more reafon to rely on a tradition refpe&ing
the tranfcriber of an ancient manufcript, than on a tra¬
dition which relates to an ancient relic. The argu¬
ments which have been urged by Wetftein, Semler,
Gudin, and Woide, to fix the date of this manufcript,
are fo many, that it rvould be tedious to repeat them.
But, after all, its antiquity cannot be determined with
certainty, though it appears from the formation of the
letters, which referable thole of the fourth and fifth cen¬
turies, and the want of accents, that it was not written
fo late as the tenth century. In this century it was
placed by Gudin, while Grabe and Schulze have refer¬
red it to the fourth, which is the very utmoft period
that can be allowed, becaufe it contains the epiftles of
Athanafius. Wetftein, with more probability, has cho-
fen a mean between thefe two extremes, and referred it
to the fifth century : but we are not juftified in drawing
this inference from the formation of the letters alone,
for it is well known that the fame mode of forming
the letters was retained longer in fome countries and in
fome monafteries than in others.
We are now in poffeflion of a perfect impreftion of
this manufcript, which is accompanied with fo complete
and fo critical a colledlion of various readings, as is
hardly to be expefled from the edition of any other
manufcript. Dr Woide publilhed it in 1786, with types
call for that purpofe, line for line, without intervals be¬
tween the words, as in the manufcript itfelf: the copy
is fo perfe£t a refemblance of the original, that it may
fupply its place. Its title is Novum Tejiamentum Grce-
cum e codice MS. Alexandrine qui Londini in Bibliotheca
Mufei Britannici ajjervatur deferiptum. It is a very
fplendid folio ; and the preface of the learned editor con¬
tains an accurate defeription of the manufcript, with
an exad; lift of all its various readings, that takes up no
lefs than 89 pages j and each reading is accompanied
with a remark, in which is given an account of what his
predeceffors Juninus, Walton, Fell, Mill, Grabe, and
Wetftein, had performed or negle&ed.
Account The Vatican manufcript contained originally the
BftheVa- whole Greek Bible, including both the Old and New
tican ma- Teftament; and in this refpe£l, as well as in regard to
its antiquity, it refembles none fo much as the Codex
Alexandrians, but no two manuferipts are more difti-
milar in their readings, in the New Teftament as well
as in the Old. After the Gofpels, which are placed in
the ufual order, come the Afts of the Apoftles, which
are immediately followed by the feven catholic epiftles.
This muft be particularly noted, becaufe fome have con¬
tended that the fecond Epiftle of St Peter, with the
fecond and third of St John, were wanting. Profeflbr
Hwiid, in a letter dated Rome, April 12. 1781, allu¬
red Michaelis that he had feen them with his own eyes,
that the fecond Epiftle of St Peter is placed folio 1434,
the fecond of St John fol. 1442, the third fol. 1443 :
Vol. XIX. Part I.
nufeript.
25 1 SC R
then follow the Epiftles of St Paul, but not in the Scripture-
ufual order j for the Epiftle to the Hebrews is pla-
ced immediately after thofe to the Theffalonians : and
it is not improbable, that in the more ancient manu¬
fcript, from which the Codex Vaticanus was copied, this
Epiftle was even placed before that to the Ephefians,
and immediately after the Epiftle to the Galatians (b) \
for the Epiftles of St Paul are divided into 93 fec-
tions by figures written in the margin with red ink ;
but the Epiftle to the Galatians ends with 39, and that
to the Ephefians begins with 70 ; the Epiftle to the
Hebrews, on the contrary, begins with 60, and ends
with 69. With the words rii 0d2, Heb. ix. 14.
the manufcript ceafes, the remaining leaves being loft.
There is wanting, therefore, not only the latter part of
this Epiftle, but the Epiftles to Timothy, Titus, and
Philemon, with the Revelation of St John : but this
laft book, as well as the latter part of the Epiftle to the
Hebrews, has been fupplied by a modern hand in the
15th century. In many places the faded letters have
been alfo retouched by a modern, but carefdl hand j
and when the perfon who made thefe amendments, who
appears to have been a man of learning, found a read¬
ing in his own manufcript which differed from that of
the Codex Vaticanus, he has noted it in the margin,
and has generally left the text itfeif untouched, though
in fome few examples he has ventured to erafe it.
It is certain, that this manufcript is of very high an¬
tiquity, though it has been difputed which of the two
in this refpeft is entitled to the preference, the Vatica¬
nus or Alexandrinus. The editors of the Roman edi¬
tion of the Septuagint, in 1587, referred the date of
the Vatican manufcript to the fourth century, the pe¬
riod to which the advocates for its great rival refer the
Codex Alexandrinus. More moderate, and perhaps more
accurate, are the fentiments of that great judge of an¬
tiquity Montfaucon, who, in his Bibliotheca Bibliothe-
carum, p. 3. refers it to the fifth or fixth century ; and
adds, that though he had feen other manuferipts of
equal antiquity, he had found none at the fame time fo
complete.
The Codex Vaticanus has a great refemblance to the
manuferipts noted by Wetftein, C. D. L. 1. 13. 33.
69. 102. and to the Latin, Coptic, and Ethiopic ver-
fions ; but it is preferable to moft of them, in being al-
moft entirely free from thofe undeniable interpolations
and arbitrary correffions which are very frequently
found in the above-mentioned manuferipts, efpecially in
D. 1. and 69. It may be applied, therefore, as a mean
not only of confirming their genuine readings, but of
dete&ing and correfting thofe that are fpurious. It is
written with great accuracy, and is evidently a faithful
copy of the more ancient manufcript from which it
was tranferibed. Peculiar readings, or fuch as are
found neither in other manuferipts nor ancient verfions,
are feldom difeovered in the Codex Vaticanus ; and of
the few which have been aftually found, the greateil
part are of little importance. But in proportion as the
number of fuch readings is fmall, the number of thofe
s great; in fupport ot which few only, though ancient
D authoriti es-
^ (b) Probably liecaufe the Epiftle to the Hebrews, as well as the Epiftle to the G tlatians, relates to the aboli¬
tion of the Mofaic law.
SCR [ 26 1 SCR
Scripture.
133
The bed
editions of
the Greek
New Telta-
ment are
thofe of
Milk
authorities, have been hitherto produced : But this
manufcript has not throughout the whole New Tefla-
ment the fame uniform text.
As we have now a beautiful printed edition of the
Alexandrian manufcript by Dr Woide, it is much to
be wiihed that we had alfo an exabt impreifion of the
Vatican manufcript. From the fuperfHtious tears and
intolerant fpirit of the inquiiition at Rome, all accefs
to this manufcript was refuied to the Abbe Spoletti,
who prefented a memorial for that purpofe. Unlefs the
pope interpofe his authority, we mull therefore detpair of
having our willies gratified ; but from the liberality of
fentiment which the head of the Catholic church has
fhown on feveral occafions, we hope that the period is
not far dillant when the Vatican library will be open to
the learned, and when the pope will think it his great-
ell honour to encourage their refearches.
The moll valuable editions of the Greek New Tella-
ment are thofe of Mill, Bengel, and Wetftein.
The edition of Mill, which was only finithed 14 days
before his death, occupied the attention of the author
for 30 years.
The colleftions of various readings which had been
made before the time of Mill, the Velefian, the Barbe-
rini, thofe of Stephens, the London Polyglot, and Fell’s
edition, with thofe which the Bilhop had left in manu-
feript, and whatever he was able to procure elfewhere,
he brought together into one large colle&ion. He made
.likewife very confiderable additions to it. He collated
feveral original editions more accurately than had been
done before : he procured extra&s from Greek manu-
feripts which had never been collated; and of fuch as
had been before collated, but not with lufficlent atten¬
tion, he obtained more complete extradls. It is faid
that he has collected from manuferipts, fathers, and ver-
fions, not fewer than 30,000 various readings. This col¬
lection, notwithftanding its many imperfeftions, and
the fuperiority of that of Wetllein, is fhll ablolutely ne-
ceffary to every critic : for Wetllein has omitted a great
number of readings which are to be found in Mill, ef-
fpecially thofe which are either taken from the Vulgate,
or confirm its readings. Mill was indeed too much at¬
tached to this verfion ; yet he cannot be accuied of par¬
tiality in producing its evidence, becaufe it is the duty
of a critic to examine the witnefles on both fides of
the queltion : and Wetftein, by too frequently negleft-
ing the evidence in favour of the Vulgate, has rendered
his collection lefs perfeCt than it would other wife have
been. He likewife added, as far as he was able, read¬
ings from the ancient verfions; and is much to be com¬
mended for the great attention which he paid to the
quotations of the fathers ; the importance of which he
had fagacity enough to difeern.
It cannot, however, be denied, that Mill’s Greek Te-
ftament has many imperfections, and fome of real im¬
portance. His extraCls from manuferipts often are not
only incomplete, but erroneous ; and it is frequently ne-
ceffary to correCt his miftakes from the edition of Wet-
Rein. His extraCts from the oriental verfions are alfo
imperfeCt, becaufe he was unacquainted with thefe lan¬
guages ; and in feleCting readings from the Syriac, the
Arabic, and Ethiopic, he was obliged to have recourfe
to the Latin tranfiations, which are annexed to thofe
verfions in the London Polyglot,
The great diligence which Mill had fiiovvn in collec- Scripture
ting io many various readings, alarmed the clergy as if v""
the Chriltian religion had been in danger of 1’ubverfion.
It gave occaficn for a time to the triumphs of the dcilt,
and expofed the author to many attacks. But it is
now univerfally known, that not a fingle article of the
Chriftian religion would be altered though a deiit were
allowed to feleCt out of Mill’s 30,000 readings what¬
ever he fhould think molt inimical to the Chriltian
caufe. _ _ 134
In 1734, Bengel abbot of Alpirfpach, in the duchy Bengel,
of Wurtemburg, publilhed a new edition of the Greek
Teftament. The fears which Mill had excited began
to fubfide on this new publication ; for Bengel was
univerfally elteemed a man of piety. Bengel was not
only diligent in the examination of various readings,
but in the ftrictelt fenfe of the word confcientious ; for
he confidered it as an offence again!! the Deity, if,
through his own fault, that is, through levity or care-
leffhefs, he introduced a falfe reading into the facred
text. His object was not merely to make a collection
of readings, and leave the choice of them to the judge¬
ment of the reader, but to examine the evidence on both
fides, and draw the inference ; yet he has not given his
own opinion fo frequently as Mill, whom he refembltd
in his reverence for the Latin verfion, and in the pre¬
ference which he gave to harfii and difficult readings,
before thofe which were fmooth and flowing. It may
be obferved in general, that he was a man of profound
learning, and had a cool and found judgement, though
it did not prevent him from thinking too highly ot the
Latin readings, and of the Codex Alexandrinus, with
other Latinizing manuferipts.
The imperfections of Bengel’s edition arife chiefly
from his diffidence and caution. He did not venture
to infert into the text any reading which had not al¬
ready appeared in fome printed edition, even though
he believed it to be the genuine reading. In the book
of Revelation indeed he took the liberty to infert read¬
ings which had never been printed ; becaufe few manu¬
feripts had been ufed in the printing of that book.
The celebrated edition of John James Wetltein, and of Wet.
which is the molt important of all, and the molt necef-fttm.
fary to thefe engaged in facred ciiticifm, was publiffied
at Amfierd sm in 1751 and 1752, in two volumes folio.
No man will deny that Wetftein’s Prolegsinena difeover
profound erudition, critical penetration, and an intimate
acquaintance with the Greek manuferipts. It is a work
which in many refpeCts has given a new turn to facred
criticifin, and no man engaged in that Itudy can dif-
penfe with it. Wherever Wetftein has delivered his
fentiments refpeCting a Greek manufcript, which he
has done lefs frequently than Mill, and indeed lefs
frequently than we could have wiihed, he ffiows himfelf
an experienced and fagacious critic. He is likewife
more concife than Mill in delivering his opinion, and
does not fupport it by producing fo great a number
of readings from the manufcript in queltion. This
concifenefs is the confequence of that warmth and halte
which were peculiar to Wetftein’s character, and which
have fometimes given bhfh to miftakes. The fire of
his difpofition was likewife the caufe of his advancing
conjectures, in regard to the hiltory of his manuferipts,
which exceed the bounds of probability. But the cri¬
tical
SCR [ 27 ] SC It
deal rules- which he has delivered are pcrfeftly juft ; and
in this refpe<ft there is a remarkable agreement between
him and his eminent predeceftbrs Mill and Bengel.
In regard to the Latin verfton alone they appear to
differ : in Mill and Bengel it has powerful, and per¬
haps partial, advocates; but in Wetftein a fevere and fu¬
gacious judge, who fometimes condemns it without a
caufe. The Greek manuferipts which confirm the read¬
ings of the Vulgate, and which he fuppofed had been
corrupted from it, he of courfe condemned with equal
feverity : and forne colleiSlions of various readings which
had been made by Catholics, he made no fcruple to
pronounce a forgery, faying, “ Timeo Dan a os et dona
fercntesD But in confequence of his antipathy to the
Vulgate, his collection of various readings is lefs perfect
than it might have been.
It has been alked, 1. Whether he has quoted his
manuferipts either falfely or imperfeCtly, in order to
eltablilh his own religious opinions ? or, 2. Whether Ins
diligence and accuracy have been fuch that we may at
ail times depend upon them ? To the firft of thefe quef-
tions there can be no other anfwer, than that Wetftein,
in his character of a critic, is perfectly honeft. With
refpeCt to the fecond, his diligence and accuracy, Mi-
chaelis thinks there is lefs reafon to pronounce him
faultlefs. But Mr Marftr has examined the examples
on which Michaelis founds his affertion, and declares
that Michaelis is miftaken in every one of them.
The diligence of Wetftein can fcarcely be queftioned
by any who are acquainted with his hiftory. He tra¬
velled into different countries, and examined with his
own eyes a much greater number of manuferipts than
any of his predeceffors. His collection of various read¬
ings amounts to above a million; and he has not only
produced a much greater quantity of matter than his
predeceffors, but has likewife corrected their miftakes.
The extrads from manuferipts, verfions, and printed
editions of the Greek Teftament, which had been
quoted by Mill, are generally quoted by Wetftein.
Whenever Wetftein had no new extraCts from the ma-
nuferipts quoted by Mill, or had no opportunity of ex¬
amining them himfelf, he copied literally from Mill;
but wherever Mill has quoted from printed editions,
as from the margin of Robert Stephens’s for inftance,
or from the London Polyglot, Wetftein did not copy
from Mill, but went to the original fource, as appears
from his having corrected many miftakes in Mill’s quo¬
tations.
In the opinion of Michaelis, there are many defeCts
in the edition of Wetftein, which require to be fupplted,
and many errors to be corrected. Yet ftill it muft be
allowed to be a work of immenfe labour, and moft valu¬
able to thofe engaged in facred criticifm •, and it is fur-
prifing, when we confider the difficulties and labour
which Wetftein had to encounter, that his errors and
imperfections are fo few.
The propofal of Michaelis, however, of a new col¬
lation of manuferipts, in order to form a complete col¬
lection of various readings, is worthy the attention of
the learned. In mentioning this propofal, Michaelis
turns a wiihful eye towards Britain, the only country,
he fays, which poffeffes the will and the means to exe¬
cute the talk. Should a refolution, he adds, be formed
in this illand, fo happily fituated for promoting the
purpofes of general knowledge, to make the under- Scrptur*.
taking a public concern, to enter into a fubfcription, v~"n'
and to employ men of abilities in collating mamjfcripts
both at home and abroad, they would be able to do more
in ten years than could otherwife be done in a century.
And could this nation direCt its attention to any objeCt
more glorious or more ufeful than in afeertaining the
text of the facred Scriptures, and giving to pofterity an
accurate edition ? r
As the fenfe of Scripture, as well as all other books, pul1aua-
is affeCted by the punCluation, it is of importance to de- tion of the
termine whether the Hops or points which we find in New Ttfir¬
th e facred books were ufed by the facred writers, or have ment*
been inferted by modern tranferibers.
We are told by Montfaucon, in his Palaographia
Graca, p. 31. that the perfon who firft diftinguiihed the
feveral parts of a period in Greek writing, by the intro¬
duction of a point, was Ariitophanes of Byzantium, who
lived under Ptolemaeus Epiphanes, in the 145th Olym¬
piad. But though points w ere not ufed in books before
this period, they were employed in inferiptions above
400 years before the birth of Chrift. See Mont. Pal.
Grasc. p. 135.
Under the article Punctuation we mentioned, on
authority which we reckoned unqueftionable, that the
ancient manuferipts were wT'itten without any points.
We have now, however, difeovered, from Woide’s edi¬
tion of the Codex Alexandrians, that points are uled in
that manufeript, though omitted in the fac Jltnile given
by Montfaucon. That they are found too in the Codex
Vaticanus, though not frequently, is related by Birch
in his Prolegomena, p. 14.
As the fa Cl has not been generally knowm, that tire
ancients pointed their manuferipts, and as it is an im¬
portant and interelling faCt, we lhall prefent our read¬
ers with the firft fix lines of St John’s Gofpel, as they
are pointed in the Alexandrian manufeript:
ENAPXHHNOAOrOSKAIOAOrOSHN
IIPOETONON KAIQSHNOAOrOS-
OTTOSHNENAPXHnPO2TON0N
nANTAAIATTOTErENETO-KAIXfi
PEISATTOTErENETOOTAEEN-
OrErONENENATTnzaHHN-
Whether any points for marking the fenfe were ufed
by the apoftles, cannot be determined } but the points
now in ule have been invented fince.
In the fourth century, Jerome began to add the com¬
ma and colon to the Latin verfion ; and they wrere then
inferted in many more ancient manuferipts. In the
fifth century, Euthalius a deacon of Alexandria divided
the New Teftament into lines. This divifion was re¬
gulated by the fenfe, fo that each line ended where fome
paufe was to be made in fpeaking. And when a co-
pyift was difpofed to contraCl his fpace, and therefore
crowded the lines into eacli other, he then placed a
point w-here Euthalius had terminated the line. In
the eighth century, the ftroke was invented which w'e
call a comma. In the Latin manuferipts, Jerome’s
points wTere introduced by Paul Warnfried and Alcuin,
at the command of Charlemagne. In the ninth cen¬
tury, the Greek note of interrogation (;) w^as firft ufed.
At the invention of printing the editors placed the
D 2 points
, 137
Divilion
into chap¬
ter.- .
SCR [ 2
Scripture, points arbitrarily, probably without bellowing the ne-
**‘,~*'> celTary attention j and Stephens, in particular, varied
his points in every edition (d).
The meaning of many paffages in the Scripture has
been altered by falfe pointing. We fliall produce one
initance of this : Mat. v. 34. is commonly pointed in
this manner, iyu et Myu vpiv, (in ofits-xi oXaf (cnn n
and confequently tranflated, “ But I fay unto
you, fwear not at all.” But if, inftead of the colon
placed after cA»f, we fubflitute a comma, the tranflation
will be, “ But I fay to you that you ought by no means
to fwear, either by heaven, for it is his throne, or by
earth, for it is his footftool.” The command of Chriit
therefore applies particularly to the abufe of oaths
among the Pharifees, who on every trivial occafion
fwore by the heaven, the earth, the temple, the head,
&c. but it implies no prohibition to take an oath in
the name of the Deity on folemn and important occa-
fions.
The ancients divided the New Teftament into two
kinds of chapters, fome longer and fame fhorter. This
method appears to be more ancient than St Jerome, for
he expunged a paflage from the New Teftament which
makes an entire chapter. The longer kind of chap¬
ters were called breves, the fhorter capilu/a. St Mat¬
thew contained, according to Jerome, 68 breves 5 Mark
contained 48 j Luke 83 ; and John 18. All the evan-
gelifts together confifted of 217 breves and 1126 capi-
tula. The inventor of our modern divifion into chap¬
ters was Hugo de S. Caro, a French Dominican friar,
who lived in the 13th century.
The ancients had two kinds of verfes, one of which
they called and the other gn[M,rx. The remat a
were lines which contained a certain number of letters,
like our printed books, and therefore often broke off in
the middle of a word. Jofephus’s 20 books of Antiqui¬
ties contained 60,000 of them, though in Ittiquis’s edi¬
tion there are only 40,000 broken lines.
Stichi were lines meafured by the fenfe : according to
an ancient written lift mentioned by Father Simin, there
were in the New Teftament 18,612 of thefe.
The verfes into which the New Teftament is now
divided are more modern, and an imitation of the di¬
vifion of the Old Teftament. Robert Stephens, the
firft inventor, introduced them in his edition in the year
1.38
Divifion
into verfes.
8 ] SCR
I55I» He made this divifion on a journey from Lyons ScnpturJ.
to Paris 5 and, as his fon Henry tells us in the preface
to the Concordance of the New Teftament, he made it
inter equitandum. I his phrafe probably means, that
wdren he was weary of riding, he amufed himfelf with
this work at his inn.
I his invention of the learned printer was foon intro-its difad.
duced into all the editions of the New Teftament j and vantages,
it mull be confefled, that in confulting and quoting the
Scriptures, and in framing concordances for them, a fub-
divifion into minute parts is of the greateft utility. But
all the purpoles of utility could furely have been gain¬
ed, without adopting the hafty and indigefted divifion
of Stephens, which often breaks the fenfe in pieces,
renders plain paffages obfcure, and difficult pafiages un¬
intelligible. . To the injudicious divifion of Stephens
we may afcribe a great part of the difficulties which at¬
tend the interpretation of the New' Teflament, and a
great many of thole abfurd opinions which have dif-
graced the ages of the Reformation. For as feparate
verfes appear to the eyes of the learned, and to the
minds of the unlearned, as fo many detached fentences,
they have been fuppofed to contain complete fenfe, and
they have accordingly been explained without any re¬
gard to the context, and often in diredl oppofition to
it. _ Were any modern hiftory or continued difcourfe
divided into fragments with as little regard to the fenfe,
we ftiould foon find, that as many oppofite meanings
could be forced upon them as have been forced upon
the books of the New leftament. The divifion into
verfes has been ftill more injurious to the Epiftles than
to the Gofpels, for there is a clofe conneftion between
the different parts of the Epiftles, which the verfes en¬
tirely diffolve. It is therefore to be wfiflied that this
divifion into verfes were laid afide. The Scriptures
ought to be divided into paragraphs, according to the
fenfe; and the figures ought to be thrown into the mar¬
gin. In this way, the figures will retain their utility
without their difadvantages. Dr Campbell, in his
beautiful tranflation of the Gofpels, has adopted this
method with great judgement and fuccefs; and he who
will read that tranflation, will perceive that this Angle
alteration renders the Gofpels much more intelligible,
and, w'e may add, more entertaining (e).
The word EYAITEAION fignifies any joyful tidings, Meaning of
and the word
GofpeU
(d) The reader will perceive that the account of the origin of points is different from that given under Punc¬
tuation. But the belt authors differ upon this fubjeft. We fliall perhaps reconcile the difference, by fuppofing
that points were invented at the time here mentioned, but w'ere not in general ufe till the time mentioned under
the article Punctuation.
(e) We fliall here fubjoin, as a curiofity, what the anonymous author terms the Old and New Teftament diffeB-
ed. It contains an enumeration of all the books, chapters, verfes, words, and letters, which occur in the Engliffi
Bffile and Apocrypha. It is faid to have occupied three years of the author’s life, and is a Angular inftance of the
trifling employments to which fuperftition has led mankind.
Books in the Old
Chapters
Verfes
Words
Letters
The Old and New Testament differed
39
929
23,214
59M39
2,728,100
in the New
27
260
- *7959
181,253
838,380
Total
66
- 1189
' 3GI73
- 773,692
3,566,480
Apocryph.
Chapters 183
Verfes 6081
Words 152,185
The
Scripture
141
Gofpel ac¬
cording to
St Mat¬
thew.
142
Its authen¬
ticity.
lib.vi
cap. 25.
SCR [
and exaiflly correfponds to our Englifh, word Gospel.
' In the New Teftament this terra h confined to “ The
glad tidings of the coming of the Mefiiah.” Thus, in
Mat. xi. 5. our Lord fays, “ The poor have the Go¬
fpel preached that is, The coming of the Mefliah is
preached to the poor. Hence the name of Gofpel was
given to the hitfories of Chrift, in which the good news
of the coming of the Meffiah, with all its joyful circum-
ftances, are recorded.
That the Gofpel according to Matthew was compo-
fed, fays Dr Campbell, by one born a Jew, familiarly-
acquainted with the opinions, ceremonies, and cultoms
of his countrymen j that it was compofed by one con-
verfant in the facred writings, and habituated to their
idiom 3 a man of plain fenfe, but of little or no learning,
except what he derived from the Scriptures of the Old
Teftament; and finally, that it was the production of
a man who wrote from conviction, and had attended
clofely to the fafts and fpeeches which he related, but
who in writing entertained not the moft diftant view
of fetting off himfelf—we have as ftrong internal evi¬
dence as the nature of the thing will admit, and much
ftronger than that wherein the mind ninety-nine cafes
out of a hundred acquiefces.
That the author of this hiftory of our blefled Savi¬
our was Matthew, appears from the tellimony of the
early Chriftians. It is attefted by Jerome, Auguftin,
Epiphanius, and Chryfoftom, and in fuch a manner as
fiiews that they knew the faift to be uncontroverted,
and judged it to be incontrovertible. Origen, who
flouriflied in the former part of the 3d century, is alfo
refpe&able authority. He is quoted by Eufebius in a
.chapter* wherein he fpecially treats of Origen’s account
of the facred canon. “ As I have learned (fays Ori¬
gen) by tradition concerning the four gofpels, which
alone are received without difpute by the whole church
of God under heaven ; the firft was written by Mat¬
thew, once a publican, afterwards an apoftle of Jefus
Chrift, who delivered it to the Jewijh believers, compofed
in the Hebrew language.'1'1 In another place he fays,
“ Matthew writing for the Hebrews who expected him
who was to defcend from Abraham and David, fays
29 ] SCR
the lineage of Jefus Chrift, fon of David, fon of Abra- Scripture,
ham.'” It muft be obferved, that the Gi'eek word v™—-*
does not exactly correfpond to the Englifh
word tradition, which figniiies any thing delivered orally
from age to age. properly implies any thing
tranfmitted from former ages, whether by oral or writ¬
ten teftimony. In this acceptation we find it ufed in
Scripture-f : “ Hold the traditions (-nx? Teoieflicxrutd) which fThefi". ii*,
ye have been taught, whether by word or our epifle.'1'1 ‘S-
The next authority to which we ftiall have recourfe
is that of Irenseus biihop of Lyons, who had been a
difciple of Polycarp. He fays in the only book of his
extant, that “ Matthew, among the Hebrews, wrote a Eufeb. Hiji:
gofpel in their own language, whilft Peter and Paul ^■ccl- v-
were preaching the gofpel at Rome and founding thecap‘ 8*
church there.”
To the teftimony of thefe writers it may be objefted,
that, except Irenaeus, they all lived in the third and
fourth centuries, and confequently their evidence is of
little importance.. Eut there is fuch unanimity in the
teftimony, that it muft have been derived, from fome
authentic fource. And is it fair to queftion the veraci¬
ty of refpeftable men merely becaufe we knew not
from what writings they received their information ?
Many books which were then extant are now loft 3 and
how do we know but thefe might have contained fuf-
ficient evidence ? Irenseus at leaft had the beft opportu¬
nities of-information, having been well acquainted in his
youth with Polycarp, the difciple of John 3 no objec¬
tion can therefore be made to his evidence. But we
can quote an authority ftill nearer the times of the
apoftles. Papias biftiop of Hierapolis, in Caefarea, who
ftouriftied about A. D. 116, affirms that Matthew wrote
his gofpel in the Hebrew tongue, which every one in¬
terpreted as he was able Papias was the companion? Eufeb.
of Polycarp, and befides muft have been acquainted with
many perfons who lived in the time of the apoftles. ^
The fa6t therefore is fully eftablithed, that Matthew,'5’
the apotlle of our Saviour, was the author of that gof¬
pel which is placed firft in our editions of the New Tef¬
tament.
The next fubjeft of inquiry refpe&s the language in
which.
The middle Chapter and the leaft in the Bible is Pfalm 117.
The middle Verfe is the 8th of the 118th Pfalm.
The middle time is the 2d of Chronicles, 4th Chap. 16th Verfe..
The word And occurs in the Old Teftament 35,543 times.
The fame in the New Teftament occurs 10,684 times.
The word Jehovah occurs 6855 times.
Old Testament.
The middle Book is Proverbs.
The middle Chapter is Job 29th.
The middle Verfe is 2d Chron. 20th Chap, between 17th and 18th \V4-
The leaft Verfe is x Chron. ift Chap, and ift Verfe.
New Testament.
The middle Book is Theffalonians 2d.
The middle Chapter is between the 13th and 14th Romans.
The middle Verfe is 17th Chap. A efts, 17th Verfe.
The leaft Verfe is nth Chap. John, Verfe 3
i he 2ift Verfe of the 7th Chapter of Ezra has all the letters of the alphabet.
? he 19th Chapter of 2d Kings and 37th of Ifaiah are alike.
£> ripture.
144
Date,
1.aril tier's
Hi ft of the
Hpojies.
MS
awl defign
ol it.
Dr Camp¬
bell's Pre¬
face to
Matthe'w
'Oofpel.
SCR [ 3
which it was written. This we are affured by Papias,
by Irenfcus, and Origen, was the Hebrew; but the
truth of this fa<ft has been difputed by Eraiinus, Whit¬
by, and others. Whitby urges the improbability that
Providence would have fuffered the original of this
gofpel to be lod, and nothing to remain but a tranfla-
tion. This is an argument of no force againil written
teffimony •, indeed we are alwTays in danger of dravving
falfe conclufions when we argue from our own opinions
of the conduft of Providence : For Hit ways are rot
as our ways, nor His thoughts as our thoughts. But
though wTe are forced to acknowledge that the goipel
atcording to IVXatthew which wTe pofleis is a trunilution,
it is evidently a clofe one ; and the very circumitance
that it has fuperfeded the original, is a clear proof that
it was thought equally valuable by the ancient Chrilli-
ans. It is°neceflary to remark, that the language in
which the gofpel according to Matthew was original¬
ly com poled, and which is called Hebrew by Papias,
Irenteus, and Origen, is not the fame with the Hebrew
of the Old Teftament: it was what Jerome very pro¬
perly terms Syro-Chaldaic, having an affinity to both
languages, but much more to the Chaldean than to the
Syrian. '
The time when this gofpel was compofed has not
been precifely afeertained by the learned. Irenasus far s
that “ Matthew publifhed his gofpel when Peter and
Paul were preaching at Home.” Now Paul arrived at
Rome A. D. 60 or 61, and it is very probable fuffered
martyrdom in A. D. 65. I his may be jufiiy concluded
from comparing the relation of lacitus with that of O-
rofius, a writer of the fifth century. Orcfius haying
given an account of Nero’s periecution of the Chrilfians,
and of the death of the two apoftles in it, adds, that it
was followed by a peftilence in the city, and other dif-
afters. And Tacitus relates that a peftilence prevailed
in the city, and violent ftorms took place m Italy, in the
year of Chrifl 65. Matthew’s gofpel was therefore writ¬
ten between the year 60 and 65.
That this hittory was primarily intended for the ufe
of the Jews, we have, befidcs biftorical evidence, very
ftrong prefumptions from the book itfelr. Every cii-
cumilance is carefully pointed out which might concili¬
ate the faith of that nation •, every unneceffary expref-
r fion is avoided, which might, in any way ferve to ob-
Itrucl it. To come to particulars, there was no fentx-
ment relating to the Meffiah with which the Jews weie
more ftrongly poffeffed, than that he muft be of the race
of Abraham, and of the family of David. Matthew,
therefore, with great propriety, begins his narrative with
the genealogy of Jclus. I hat he Ihould be ^ born at
Bethlehem in Judea, is another circumftance in which
the learned among the Jews were univerfally agreed.
His birth in that city, with fome very memorable cir-
cumftances that attended it, this hiftorian has alfo taken
the firft opportunity to mention. Ihofe paffages in the
prophets, or other facred books, which either foretel any
thing that fhould hsppen to him, or admit an allufive*
appellation, or were in that age generally undeiftood to
be applicable to events which refpeft the Mefiiah, aie
never paffed over in filence by this Evangelift. i he
• fulfilment of prophecy was always to the Jews, who
were convinced of the infpiration of tneir facred v. ilt-
ings, ftrong evidence. Accordingly none of the Evari-
) ] S C Pi
gelifts has been more careful than Matthew, that no- Scripture.
thing of this kind Ihould be overlooked.
That which chiefly diftinguithes Matthew's writings oiftinguifli-
from thofe of the ether Evangelifts, is the minute and ,rer charac-
diftinct manner in which he has related many of our ter.
Lord’s difeourfes and moral inftiuaions. Of thele his
fermon on the mount, his charge to the apoftles, his
illuilrations of the nature of his kingdom, and his pro¬
phecy on Mount Olivet, are examples. He has alfo
wonderfully united fimplicity and energy in relating the
replies of his mafter to the cavils of his adverfaries. Be¬
ing early called to the apoftleftiip, he was an eye and ear
witnels of mod of the things which he relates. And
there are circumllairces which incline Dr Campbell to
think that Matthew has approached as near the precife
order of time in which the events happened as any of the
Evangelifts.
Concerning the life of the apoftle Matthew we have
nothing to add, as the principal circumftances in his life
have already been mentioned. See Matthew.
The Gofpel according to Matthew is cited feven times
in the epiftle of Barnabas, twice in the firft epiftle of
Clemens Romanus to the Corinthians, eight times in the
Shepherd ofHermas, fix times in Poly crip’s {mail epift e
to the Philippians, and feven times in the fmaller epiftles
of Ignatius. Thefe citations may be feen at full length
in Jonesf New and Full Method of fettling the Canon,
with the parallel paiTages in the goipel according to
Matthew. # iA-
That Mark was the author of the gofpel which bears Go pel ac-
his name, and that it was the fecond in the order of c^cjing to
time, is proved by the unanimous teftimony of the an-St iV^rsk*
cient Chriftians. Many authorities are therefore un-Its au4then.
neceffary ^ we {hall only mention thofe of Papias and ticity,
Irenteus. Eufebius has preferved the following paffage
of Papias : “ This is what was related by the elder (that pjji, Eccl.
is, John, not the apoftle, but a difciple of Jefus) ; Mark 111), iii. cap.
being Peter’s interpreter wrote exaflly whatever be re-39-
membered, not indeed in the order wherein things were
fpoken and done by the Lord j for he was not himfelf a
heaver or follower of our Lord 5 but be afterwaids, as I
faid, followed Peter who gave inftruftions as fuited the
occafions, but not as a regular hi (lory of our Lord’s
teaching. Mark, however, committed no miftake in
writing fuch things as occurred to his memory : for of
this one thing he was careful, to omit nothing which he
had heard, and to infert no falfchood into his narrative.”
Such Is the teftimony of Papias, which is the more to be
regarded as he afligns his authority. He fpake not riom
hearfay, but from the information which he had recei¬
ved from a rooft credible witnefs, John the eldei, 01
prefbyter, a difciple of Jefus, and a companion of the
apoftles. 149
lyenjeus, after telling us that Matthew publfthed his and date,
crofpel vvhilft Peter and Paul were preaching at Rome,
adds : “ After their departure Mark alfo» tke cap.’
difciple and interpreter of Peter, delivered to us m u
writing the things which had been preached by Peter.
The Greek t0ef, like the _ Englifh word departure,
may either denote death, which is a departure out of
the world, or mean a departure out of the city. It is
probably in the former of thefe fenfes it is here ufed.
Yet by the accounts given by fome others, Mark’s
gofpel was publfthed in Peter’s' lifetime, and had his
& approbation.
Preface to
Mark*
* i Pet v,
13-
I3°
Language
in whii h u
was writ¬
ten.
IS1 r
Defijn of
S C R [3
Scripture, approbation. The gofpel of Marti is mppcicd to be
—\ but two years potierior in date to that ot Matthew.
The precife year, however, cannot be determined with
certainty J and it is a matter of no importance, fince we
have afcertained the author and the time in which he
lived.
Mark has generally been fuppofed to be the fame
perfon who is mentioned in the a£ls and icme of Paul’s
epiffles, who is called John, and was the nephew of Bar¬
nabas. But as this pevfon was the attendant of Paul
and Barnabas, and is nowhere in fcripture faid to have
accompanied Peter in his apoifolical miffion, which
ancient writers inform us the author ot the golpel did,
Dr Campbell has juttly concluded that thefe were dif¬
ferent perfons. The author of the gofpel is certainly
meant by Pe er when he fays Marcus my fon faluteth
you *.
That Mark wrote his gofpel in Greek, is as evidently
conformable to the tetHmony of antiquity, as that Mat¬
thew wrote his in Hebrew or Syro Chaldaic. The car¬
dinals Baronins and Bellarmine, anxious to exalt the lan¬
guage in which the vulgate was written, have maintained
that this Evangelill publiihed his work in Latin. The
only appearance of tellimony which has been produced
in fupport of this opinion is the infcription fubjoined to
this gofpel in Syriac, and in fome other oriental verfions.
But thefe poftlcripts are not the tedimonies oi the tranf-
lators : they proceed from the conjecture of fome tran-
fcriber; but when written, or by whom, is equally un¬
known. Againft pofitive teifimony therefore they are
entitled to no credit.
From the Hebraiftns in the ftyle, we fliould readily
conclude that the author was by birth and education a
Jew. There are alfo expreffions which fhow that he
had lived for fome time among the Latins, as ksvtv^im*,
“ centurion,” and “ fentinel j” words which
do not occur in the other gofpels. There are other
internal evidences that this gofpel was written be¬
yond the confines of Judea. The firft time the Jor¬
dan is metioned, stota^sj, “ river,” is added to the
name for explanation j for though no perfon in Judea
needed to be informed that Jordan was a river, the cafe
was different in diftant countries. The word Gehenna,
which is tranilated He//in the New Teftament, origi¬
nally fignified the Vallei/ of Hinnom, where infants had
been facrificed by fire to Moloch, and where a conti¬
nual fire was afterwards kept up to confume the filth of
Jerufalem. As this word could not have been under¬
flood by a foreigner, the Evangelift adds, by way of
explanation, ttvq to cte-fiiror, “ the unquenchable fire.’
In Head of the word Mammon, he ufes the common
term “ riches.” When he employs the oriental
word Carbon, he fubjoins the interpretation a
“ that is, a gift.” Thefe peculiarities will corroborate
the hiilorical evidence that has been already mentioned,
that Mark intended his gofpel for the ufe of the Gen¬
tiles.
It has been affirmed that this evangelift is the abridger
of Matthew. It is true that Mark fometimes copies
the expreffions ufed by Matthew j but he is not to be
confidered as a mere abridger, for he omits altogether
feveral things related by Matthew, viz. our Lord’s pe¬
digree, his birth, the vifit of the Magians, Jofeph’s
flight into Egypt, and the cruelty of Herod. Dr
Lardner has given a lift of thirty-three paffages, w’here-
T)r Camp¬
bell's Pre¬
face to
Mark's
Gojpel.
IS*
Mark not
the abrid¬
ge! of Mat¬
thew,
i ] SCR
in circumftances are related which are omitted by the Scripture
other evangclilts. There is one parable, and an account ' 1
of two miracles peculiar to Mark. The parable or fi-
militude is mentioned in chap. iv. 26. One of thefe mi¬
racles was the curing of a deaf and dumb man, chap,
vii. 31, 37. The other was the giving fight to a blind
man at Bethfaida, chap. viii. 22, 26. The ftyle of
Mark, inftead of being more concife than that of Mat¬
thew, is more diffufe. That he had read Matthew’s
gofpel cannot be doubted, but that he abridged it, is a
miflake.
According to the teftiraony which has been already but (ierived
produced, Mark derived his information from the apoitle ips infonna-
Peter. It would be improper, therefore, not to remark, ^one^rom
that this evangelift has omitted many things tending to
Peter’s honour, which are related in the other goipels,
and has given the moft particular account of Peter’s fall.
This gofpel is feven times cited by Irengeus, and nine
times by Tertullian.
That the author of the gofpel which is the third in Gofptl ac-
order was Luke, the companion of the apoitle Paul, is cording to
evident from the teftimonies of Irenaeus, Clemens of ^
Alexandria, Origen, Tertullian, and many lucceeding
writers. But it has been dilputed whether he was a
Jew or a Gentile. That Luke was a Jew by birth, or
at leaft by religion, may be argued from his being a
conftant companion of Paul. If he had been an un-
circumcifed Gentile, exceptions would have been made
to him, efpecially at Jerufalem ; but nothing of that
kind appears. It is alfo rendered highly probable, from
his mode of computing time by the Jewifh feftivals, and
from his frequent ufe of the Hebrew idiom. It has been
fuppoied that Luke was one of the 70 difciples •, but he
does not pretend to have been a witnefs of our Lord’s
miracles and teaching ; on the contrary, he tells us in
his introdudlion, that he received his information from
others. r
The defign of Luke in writing his gofpel was to fu- Defigu of
perfede fome imperfedl and inaccurate hiftories of our it.
Saviour, which had then been publifhed. What thefe
were, it is impoffible now to determine, as they are
not mentioned by any contemporary writer, and pro¬
bably did not furvive the age in which they were com-
pofed. I55
It has been fuppofed that Luke chiefly derived his From what
information from the apoftle Paul, whom he faithfully fource
attended in his travels 5 but, from Luke’s own words, v"as
we are led to conclude, that the principal fource of his derived.'
intelligence, as to the fafts related in the gofpel, was
from thofe who had been eye and ear witneffes of what
our Lord both did and taught. Now Paul evidently
was not of this number. It was from converfing with
fome of the twelve apoftles or difciples of our Lord, who
heard his difeourfes and faw his miracles, that he obtain¬
ed his information.
As to the time when this gofpel was written, we have
hardly any thing but conjeHure to guide us. But as O-
rigen, Eufebius, and Jerome, have ranged it after thofe
of Matthew and Mark, we have no reafon to doubt but'
they were written in the fame order.
The gofpel by Luke has fupplied us with many inte- HasVup-
refting particulars which had been omitted both by plied many
Matthew and Mark. It has given a diftin£t narrationomifiions
of the circumftances attending the birth of John thetht tvVrlciT*
Baptift and the nativity of our Saviour. It has given 1 ^
Sc-ripture,
Camp~
bell's Pre¬
face to
Lnke's
^ of pel.
I58
Style and
compofition
of it.
Chap. xvi.
14.
159
Cited by
ancient
Chriftian
authors.
160
Gofpel ac.
cording to
John.
SCR
an account of ieveral memorable incidents and cures
which had been overlooked by the reft \ the conver-
fion of Zaccheus the publican j the cure of the woman
who had been bowed down for 18 years; the cure of
the dropfical man ; the cleanfing of the ten lepers j the
inhofpitable treatment of our Saviour by the Samari¬
tans, and the inftrudlive rebuke which he gave on that
occafion to two of his difciples for their intemperate
zeal 5 alfo the affefting interview which he had after his
refurrecfion with two of his difciples. Luke has alfo
added many edifying parables to thofe which the other
evangelifts had recorded. Moft of thefe are fpecified
by Irenaeus as particularly belonging to this gofpel,
and has thereby fhown to us, without intending it, that
the gofpel of Luke was the fame in his time that it is at
prefent.
The ftyle of this evangelift abounds as much with
Hebraifms as any of the facred waitings, but it contains
more of the Grecian idiom than any of them. It is
alfo diftinguithed by greater variety and copioufnefs \
qualities which may be juftly afcribed to the fuperior
learning of the author. His occupation as a phyfician
would naturally induce him to employ fome time in
leading, and give him eafier accefs to the company of
the great than any of the other evangelifts. As an
inftance of Luke’s copioufnefs, Dr Campbell has re¬
marked that each of the evangelifts has a number of
words which are ufed by none of the reft 5 but in Luke’s
gofpel the number of fuch peculiarities or words, ufed
in none of the other gofpels, is greater than that of the
peculiar wmrds found in all the three other gofpels put
together’, and that the terms peculiar to Luke are for
the moft part long and compound words. The fame
judicious ■writer has alfo obferved, that there is more of
compolition in Luke’s fentences than is found in the
other three, and confequently lefs ftmplicity. Of this
the very firft fentence is an example, which occupies
no lefs than four verfes. Luke, too, has a greater re-
femblance to other hiftorians, in giving what may be
called his own verdift in the narrative part of this work j
a freedom which the other evangelifts have feldom or
never ventured to ufe. He calls the Pharifees lovers
of money; in diftinguifhing Judas Ifcariot from the
other Judas, he ufes the phrafe, he who proved a traitor,
(o? *■«< sysvsre Trgeocrr,;'). Matthew and Mark exprefs the
fame fentiment in milder language, “ he who delivered
him up.” In recording the moral inftrudtions of our
Lord, efpecially his parables, this evangelift has united
an affefting fweetnefs of manner with genuine fimpli-
city.
This gofpel is frequently cited by Clemens Romanus,
the contemporary of the Apoftles, by Ignatius, and Juf-
tin Martyr. Irenseus has made above a hundred cita¬
tions from it. In his lib. iii. eidv. Hceref. c. 14. he vindi¬
cates the authority and perfc6Hon of Luke’s gofpel, and
has produced a colleftion of thofe fadts which are only
recorded by this evangelift.
That the gofpel which is placed laft in our editions of
the New Teftament was written by John, one of our
Saviour’s apoftles, is confirmed by the unanimous tefti-
mony of the ancient Chriftians. He was the fon of Ze-
bedee, a filherman of Bethfaida in Galilee, by his wife
Salome, and the brother of James, furnamed the elder
or greater. He was the beloved difciple of our Saviour,
atid was honoured, along with Peter and James, with
3 ] SCR
many masks of diftinction which were not conferred on Scripture,
the other difciples. He poffeffed a high degree of intre-
pidity and zeal, a warm and aJFedtionate heart, and was
ftrongly attached to his mafter. His brother James and
he were honoured with the title of Boanerges, or Sons
of Thunder, He was anxious to reftrain whatever he
confidered as a mark of difrefpedt againft his mafter, and
to puniih his enemies with ieverity. He was incenfed
againft fome perfons for attempting to call out demons
in the name of Jefus *, and required them to defift becaufe
they were not his difciples. James and he propofed to
our Saviour to call down fire from heaven to punifh the
inhofpitable Samaritans. Nor was the courage of John
lefs ardent than his zeal. When Peter had diibwned his
Lord, and all the other difciples had fled, John conti¬
nued to attend his mafler. He was prefent at his trial,
and followed him to the crofs, where he was a fpefta-
tor of his fufferings and death. The intervieiv between
Jefus and this difciple at Calvary, though concifely re¬
lated, is an event which will ftrongly aftedt every man
of feeling, w'hile it convinces him of the unalterable af-
fedtion of Jefus to his beloved difciple, as well as
difcovers his refpedlful tendernefs for his mother. See
John. i«2
The ancients inform us, that there were two motives Motives
which induced John to write his gofpel: the one, that^urVri^"
he might refute the herefies of Cerinthus and the Nico-ing
laitans, who had attempted to corrupt the Chriftian
dodtrine the other motive was, that he might lupply
thofe important events in the life of our Saviour which
the other evangelifts had omitted. Of the former of
thefe motives Irenteus gives us the following account :
“ John, defirous to extirpate the errors lown in the
minds of men by Cerinthus, and fome time before by
thofe called Nicolaitans, publiftied his gofpel ’, wherein
he acquaints us that there is one God, who made all
things by his word, and not, as they fay, one who is
the Creator of the world, and another who is the father
of the Lord ; one the fon of the Creator, and another
the Chrift, from the fuperceleftial abodes who defeend-
ed upon Jefus, the fon of the Creator, but remained
impaffible, and afterwards fled back into his own ple-
roma or fulnefs.” As Irenaeus is the moft indent au¬
thor who has written upon this fubjedt, many appeals ifo
have been made to his authority. The authority of Not to eon-
Irenseus is certainly refpedlable, and we have often re- f"te 'iere“
ferred to his teftimony with confidence j but we think
it neceffary to make a diftindliort between receiving his
teftimony to a matter of fad!, and implicitly adopting
his opinion. He does not tell us, that he derived his
information from any preceding writer, or indeed from
any perfon at all. Nay, he feems to have believed that
John wrote againft thefe herefies by a prophetic fpirit}
for he fays in another place, chap. xx. 30. “ As John
the difciple of our Lord allures us, faying, But thefe
are written, that ye might believe that Jefus is the
Chrift, the Son of God, and that believing ye might
have life through his name ; FORESEEING thefe blaf-
phcmoHs notions that divide the Lord, fo far as it is in
their power.”
Indeed it feems very improbable that an apoftle
fhould write a hiftory of our Lord on purpofe to con¬
fute the wild opinions of Cerinthus or any other here¬
tic. Had John confidered fush a confutation necef¬
fary, it is more likely that he would have introduced it
into
l63
But to
prove that
Jefus was
the Mef-
fiah the
Son of
Cod.
* John xv.
3i-
. . . s . r 33
hf-iptuve. Into an epiftle than blended it with the a£Hons of his ve¬
nerable Mailer. But were the opinion of Irenaeus well-
founded, we fliould furely difcover lome traces of it in
the golpel ot John ; yet except in the introduftion,
there is nothing that can with the leal! lhadow of pro¬
bability be applied to the opinions of Cerinthus; and
few, we prelume, will affirm, that the gofpel of John
was compoled merely for the fake of the firit eighteen
verfes.
Ihe intention of John in writing his gofpel was far
more ex ten five and important, than to refute the opi¬
nions^ of a few men who were to link into oblivion in the
courfe of_a. few centuries. It ivas evidently (according
to the opinion of Clemens of Alexandria) to fupply the
omiffions of the other evangelids: It was to exhibit the
evidences of the Chrillian religion in a dillinfl and per-
fpicuous manner : It was, as he himfelf in the conclu-
fion of his gofpel allures us, to convince his readers,
. that Jefus is the Meffiah, the Son of God, and that be¬
lieving they might have life through his name *. Now it
vriil appear to any perfon who reads this gofpel with
attention, that he has executed his plan with aftonilh-
ing ability, and has given the molt circumftantial and
fatisfaftory evidence that Jefus was the Meffiah the Son
of God. After declaring the pre-exiHence of Jefus,
he proceeds to deliver the tellimony of John the Bnp-
tift, and felefts fome of the greateft miracles of Jefus
to prove his divine miffion. In the fifth chapter he
presents us with a difeourfe which our Saviour deliver¬
ed in the temple in the prefence of the Jews, wherein
he Hates in a very diftin& manner the proofs of his
miffion from, x. The teftimony of John ; 2. His own mi¬
racles ; 3. The declaration of the Father at his baptifm;
4. The Jewilh Scriptures. Indeed the conclufion that
lefus was the lYIeliiah the Son of God, naturally arifes
from almolf every miracle which our Saviour is faid to
have performed, and from every difeourfe that he de¬
livered. This declaration is very often made by our
Saviour himfelf j particularly to the woman of Sama¬
ria, to Nicodemus, and to the blind man whom he had
cured.
It mull be evident to every reader, that John ftudi-
oufly paffes over thofe paffages in our Lord’s hiliory
and teaching which had been treated at large by the
other evangelills, or, if he mentions them at all, he men¬
tions them llightly. 1 his confirms the tellimony of
ancient writers, that the firft three gofpels were writ¬
ten and publilhed before John compofed his gofpel.
Except the relation of our Saviour’s trial, death, and
refurreftion, almolt every thing which occurs in this
book is new. The account of our Saviour’s nativity,
of his baptifm, and of his temptation in the wildernefs’
is omitted ; nor is any notice taken of the calling of
the twelve apoflles, or of their miffion during our Sa¬
viour’s life. . It is remarkable, too, that not one pa-
raole is mentioned, nor ariy of the predictions relating
to tVlP l/'vri /'■> f" I *•« 1 f'.-, 1 ^A 11 *1 _ • 1
164
Is a fuj.p’e
ment to
the other
three gof¬
pels.
Dr Camp-
beirs Pre-
face to
John's
Gofpel.
to the dellru&ion of Jerufalem.
Vol. XIX. Part I.
All the miracles re-
] SCR
corded by the other evangelifts are paffed over, except §<*ripture.
the miraculous fupply of provifion, by which five thou- V*—
fand wTere fed : and it is probable that this miracle wTas
related for the fake of the difeourfe to which it gave
birth. The other miracles which are mentioned are
few in number, but in general they are minutely de¬
tailed. _ They confift of thefe : the turning of w'ater
into wine at Cana ; the cure of the difeafed man at the
pool of Betfcefda ; the cure of the man that had been
blind from his birth ; the-reftoring of Lazarus to life ;
and the healing of the fervant’s ear which Peter had
cut off. But valuable would this gofpel be, though it
had only recorded the confolation of Jefus to his dif-
ciples previous to his departure 5 which exhibits a moft
admirable view of our Saviour’s character, of his care
and tender regard for his difciples. Having opened
every fource of comfort to their defponding minds •
exhorted them to mutual love, and to the obedience of
bis Father’s precepts; having warned them of the im¬
pending dangers and forrow's—our Saviour concludes
with a prayer, in the true fpirit of piety and benevo¬
lence j ardent without enthufiafm, fober and rational
without lukew'armnefs. l6.
Ihe time in which this gofpel was written has not Time at
been fixed with any precifion. Iren reus informs us, thatwhich
it was written at Ephefus, but leaves us to conjeCture was'Vnt”
whether it was written before or after John’s return^0*
from Patmos. He was banifhed to Patmos by Domi-
tian, who reigned 15 years, and according to the belt
computation died A. D. 96. The perfecution ivhich
occafioned. the exile of John commenced in the 14th
year of Domitian’s reign. If John wrote his gofpel
after his return to Ephefus, which is affirmed by Epi-
phanius to have been the cafe, we may fix the date of it
about the year 97 (f). ^
This gofpel is evidently the produ&ion of an illite-Style of it-
rate Jew, and its fiyle is remarkable for fimplicity. It
abounds more with Hebraifms than any of the other
gofpels ; and contains fome flrong oriental figures which
are not readily underftood by an European. c
This gofpel is cited once by Clemens Romanus, Ijy OfteV quo^
Barnabas three times, by Ignatius five times, by Juftintec* by an;'
Martyr fix times, by Irenaeus, and above forty times bycieilt chri'
Clemens Alexandrinus. * ftians.
The book which we intitle the Afts of the Apoftles Ads of the
connects the gofpels and the epiftles. It is evidently aaP°ftks.
continuation of Luke’s gofpel, which appears both from
the introduction and from the atteftations of ancient Chri-
fhans. Both are dedicated to Theophilus; and in the
beginning of the Ads a reference is made to his gofpel,
Vvhich he calls a former treatife, recording the aCIions
and difeourfes of Jefus till his afeenfion to heaven.
Luke is mentioned as the author of the Ads of the*
A poflles by Irenaeus, by Tertullian, by Origen, and
Eufebius.
From the frequent ufe of the firft perfon plural, it is
manifeft that Luke the author was prefent at many of
the
(f) It has been argued from a paffage in this gofpel, that it muft have been written before the deftrudion of
ZSS&SSZ d JSaES ssz'l” “ ^
R
169
Contents
of that
book.
SCR [ 34
Scripture, the tranfa&ions which he relates. He appears to have
"'"""v ■ 1 accompanied Paul from Troas to Philippi. He attend¬
ed him alfo to Jerufalem, and afterwards to Rome, where
he remained for two years. He is mentioned by Paul
in feveral of thofe epiitles which were written from Rome,
particularly in the 2d epiftle to Timothy, and in the
epiftle to Philemon.
This book contains the hiftory of the Chriftian church
for the fpace of about 28 or 30 years, from the time of
our Saviour’s afcenfion to Paul’s arrival at Rome in the
year 60 or 61. As it informs us that Paul reflded two
years in Rome, it muft have been written after the year
63 ; and as the death of Paul is not mentioned, it is
probable it was compofed before that event, which hap¬
pened A. U. 65.
The Afts of the Apoftles may be divided into feven
parts. 1. The account of our Saviour’s afcenfion, and
of the occurrences which happened on the firft Pente-
coft after that event, contained in chap. i. ii. 2. The
tranfattions of the Chriftians of the circumcifion at
Jerufalem, in Judea, and Samaria, chap. hi.—ix. xi.
I—21. xii. 3. Tranfaflions in Ctefarea, and the admif-
fion of the Gentiles, chap. x. 4. The firft circuit of Bar¬
nabas and Paul among the Gentiles, chap. xi. 22. xiii.
xiv. 5. Embafly to Jerufalem, and the firft council
held in that city, chap. xv. 6. Paul’s fecond journey,
chap. xvi.—xxi. 7. His arreftment, trial, appeal to
Caifar, and journey to Rome, chap. xxi. to the end of
the book.
The Affs of Apoftles are cited by Clemens Romanus,
by Polycarp, by Juflin Martyr, thirty times by Irenaeus,
and feven times by Clemens Alexandrinus.
All the eflential do&rines and precepts of the Chri¬
ftian religion were certainly taught by our Saviour him-
felf, and are contained in the gofpels. The epiftles may
be confidered as commentaries on the do&rines of the
gofpel, addreffed to particular focieties, accommodated
to their refpective fituations •, intended to refute the
errors and falfe notions which prevailed among them,
and to inculcate thofe virtues,in which they were moft
deficient.
The plan on which thefe Letters are written is,
firft, to decide the controverfy, or refute the erroneous
notions which had arifen in the fociety to which the
epiftle was addreffed : And, fecondly, to recommend
thofe duties which their falfe doftrines might induce
them to negleft; at the fame time inculcating in ge¬
neral exhortations the moft important precepts of Chri¬
ftian morality.
Of the epiftles fourteen were written by St Paul.
Tbefe are not placed according to the order of time in
which they were compofed, but according to the fup-
pofed precedence of the focieties or perfons to whom
they were addreffed. It will be proper therefore to
exhibit here their chronological order according to Dr
Lardner.
170
Often cited
by the ear¬
ly Chrilti-
a»s.
I7I
The epif¬
tles.
172
General
plan of
shem.
173 ,
Arranged
in chrono¬
logical or-
*itr.
Epiftles.
Theffalonians
Theffalonians
Galatians
Place'.
Corinth
Corinth
\ Corinjh or
\ Ephefus
]
Epiftles,
I Corinthians
1 Timothy
Titus
2 Corinthians
Romans
Ephefians
2 Timothy
Philippians
Coloflians
Philemon
Hebrews
s c
Ptices.
Ephefus
Macedonia
C Macedonia
\ or near it
Macedonia
Corinth
Rome
Rome
Rome
Rome
Rome
f Rome or
Italy
I
A. D. Scripture,
the beginning of 53 v '
56
^■bef. the end of 56
about 06lober 57
about February ?8
about April 61
about May 61
bef. the end of 62
bef. the end of 62
bef. the end of 6-2
in Spring ©£ 63
y/ Table of the Catholic Epistles, and the Reve¬
lation, according to Dr Lardner.
Epiftle.
James
The two Epiftles
of Peter
1 Johu
2d and 3d of
John
Jude
Revelation
Place.
Judea
^ Rome
Ephefus
Ephefus
Unknown
C Patmos or
Ephefus
{
or beg. of
A. D
61
62
about
C between
\ and
64
80
80
90
64 or 65
95 or 96
174
J Table of St Paul's Epistles, with the Places
where, and times when, written, according to Dr
Lardner.
A. D.
52
52
near the end of 5 2
3 or beginning of 53
It is more difficult to underftand the epiftolary wri- Caufes of
tings than the gofpels ; the caufe of which is evident. the‘r oblcu-
Many things are omitted in a letter, or (lightly mention-'
ed, becaufe fuppofed to be known by the perfon to whom
it is addreffed. To a ftranger this will create much
difficulty. The bufinefs about which St Paul wrote was
certainly well known to his correfpondents ; but at this
diftance of time we can obtain no information concern¬
ing the occafion of his writing, of the chara£ler and
circumftances of thofe perfons for whom his letters were
intended, except what can be gleaned from the writings
themfelves. It is no wonder, therefore, though many
allufions (hould be obfeure. Befides, it is evident from
many paffages that he anfwers letters and queftions
which his correfpondents had fent him. If thefe had
been preferved, they would have thrown more light up¬
on many things than all the notes and conjeddures of the
commentators. 175
The caufes of obfeurity which have been now men-Caufes of
tioned are common to all the writers of the epiftles \ oblcl*nty
but there are fome peculiar to St Paul. 1. As he had
an acute and fertile mind, he feems to have written epiftles.
with great rapidity, and without attending much to the
common rules of method and arrangement. To this
caufe we may aferibe his numerous and long parenthe-
fes. In the heat of argument he fometimes breaks off
abruptly to follow out fome new thought ; and when
he has exhaufted it, he returns from his digreffion with¬
out informing his readers; fa that it requires great at¬
tention to retain the connexion. 2. His frequent change
of perfon, too, creates ambiguity : by the pronoun / he
fometimes means himfelf; fometimes any Chriftian ;
fometimes a Jew, and fometimes any man. In ufing
the pronoun WE he fometimes intends himfelf; fome¬
times comprehends bis companions) fometimes the apof-
tle$.)
T?5 ,
Mr Locke s
plan of ftu-
tlying the
epiftles.
SCR [35
Scripture. ^]es 5 at one time he alludes to the converted Jews,, at
'Y-   another time to the converted Gentiles. 3. There is a
third caufe of obfcurity •, he frequently propofes ob-
ieddions, and anfwers them without giving any formal
intimation. There are other difficulties which arife
from our uncertainty who are the perfons he is addref-
fing, and what are the particular opinions and praftices
to which he refers. To thefe we may add two exter¬
nal caufes, which have increafed the difficulty of under-
flanding the epitlles. i. i he dividing them into chap¬
ters and verfes, which diffolves the connexion of the
parts, and breaks them into fragments. If Cicero’s
epiftles had been fo disjointed, the reading of them
would be attended with lefs pleafure and advantage, and
with a great deal more labour. 2 We are accuftomed
to the phrafeology of the epiftles from cur infancy 5
but we have either no idea at all when we ufe it, or our
idea of it is derived from the articles or fyftem which
we have efpoufed. But as different fefts have arbitrary
definitions for St Paul’s phrafes., we fhall never by fol¬
lowing them difcover the meaning of St Paul, who cer¬
tainly did not adjuft his phrafeology to any man’s fyf¬
tem. .
The beft plan of ftudying the epiftles is that which
was propofed and executed by Mr Locke. I his we
fhall prefect to our readers in the words of that acute
and judicious author.
“ After I had found by long experience,, that the
reading of the text and comments in the ordinary way
proved not fo fuccefsful as I wiftied to the end propo¬
sed, I began to fufpefl that in reading a chapter as was
ufual, and thereupon fometimes confulting expofitors
upon fome hard places of it, which at that time moft
affedted me, as relating to points then under confidera-
tion in my own mind, or in debate againft others, was
not a right method to get into the true lenfe of thefe
epiftles. I faw plainly, after I began once to refletl on
it. that if any one ftiould write me a letter as long as St
Paul’s to the Romans, concerning fuch a matter as that
is in a ft vie as foreign, and expreffions as dubious as his
feem to be, if I ftiould divide it into fifteen or fixteen
chapters, and read one of them to-day, and another to¬
morrow, &c. it is ten to one I ftiould never come to a
full and’ clear comprehenfion of it. The way to under-
ftand the mind of him that writ it, every one would
agree, was to read the whole letter through from one end
to the other all at once, to fee what was the main fub-
jeft and tendency of it : or if it had feveral views.and
purpofes in if, not dependent one of another, nor in a
fubordination to one cnief atm and end, to oifcover wffiat
thofe different matters were, and where the author con¬
cluded one, and began another ; and if there were any
neceffity of dividing the epiftle into parts, to make the
boundaries of them.
“ In the profecution of this thought, I concluded it
neceffary, for the underftanding of any one of St Paul’s
epiftles, to read it all through at one fitting, and to ob-
ferve as well as I could the drift and defign of his wri¬
ting it. If the firft reading gave me fome light, the fe-
cond gave me more ; and fo I perfifted on reading con-
ftantly the whole epiftle over at once till I came to have
a good general view of the apoftle’s main purpofe in wri¬
ting the epiftle, the chief branches of his difeourfe where¬
in he profecuted it, the arguments he ufed, and the dif-
pofition of the whole. .
] SCR
“ This, I confefs, is not to be obtained by one or Scripture... _
two hafty readings; it muft be repeated again and again v ^"‘
with a clofe attention to the tenor of the difeourfe, and
a perfeft negledt of the divifions into chapters and ver¬
fes. On the contrary, the fafeft way is to fuppofe that
the epiftle has but one bufmefs and one aim, till by a
frequent perufal of it you are forced to fee there are di-
ftinft independent matters in it, which will forwardly
enough ftiow themfelves.
“ It requires fo much more pains, judgement, and ap¬
plication, to find the coherence of obfeure and abftrufe
writings, and makes them fo much the more unfit to
ferve prejudice and preoccupation when found ; that it
is not to be wondered that St Paul’s epiftles have with
many paffed rather for disjointed, loofe, pious dftcourfes,
full of warmth and zeal, and overflow's of light, rather
than for calm, ftrong, coherent reafonings, that car¬
ried a thread of argument and confiftency all through
them.”
Mr Locke tells us he continued to read the fame
epiftle over and oter again till he difeovered the fcope.
of the whole, and the different fteps and arguments by
which the writer accomplifhes his purpofe. For he wTas
convinced before reading his epiftlcs, that Paul was a
man of learning, of found fenfe, and knew all the doc¬
trines of the gofpel by revelation. The fpeeches record¬
ed in the Adis of the Apoftles convinced this judicious
critic that Paul was a clofe and accurate reafoner : and
therefore he concluded that his epiftles would not be
written in a loofe, confufed, incoherent ftyle. Mr Locke
accordingly followed the chain of the apoftle’s difeourfe,
obferved his inferences, and carefully examined from what
premifes they were drawn, till he obtained a general out¬
line of any particular epiftle. If every divine would
follow this method, he would foon acquire fuch a know¬
ledge of Paul’s ftyle and manner, that he w’ould perufe
his other Epiftles with much greater eafe. . 177
That the Epiftle to the Romans was written at Co-Epiftteto
rinth by St Paul, is afeertained by the teftimony of thethe Ro~
ancient Chriftians. It w'as compofed in the year 58, inmdllS‘
the 24th year after Paul’s converfton, and is the feventh
epiftle which he w'rote. From the Adis of the Apoftles ^
<ve learn that it muft have been written within the fpaceItsa‘l e’
of three months •, for that was the whole period of Paul’s
refidence in Greece, (Adis xx. I, 2, 3.)
The following analyfts of this epiftle we have taken
from a valuable little treatife, intitled A Key to the
New Teftament, which was written by Dr Percy biftvop
of Dromore. It exhibits the intention of the apoftle,
and the arguments which he ufes to prove his different
propofitions. in the moft concife, diftindl, and connedted
manner, and affords the beft view of this Epiftle that
we have ever feen. 179
“ The Chriftian church at Rome appears not to have General de-
been planted by any apoftle ; wherefore St Paul, left
finould be corrupted by the Jews, who then fwarmed in
Rome, and of whom many were converted to Chriftiani-
ty, fends them an abftradt of the principal truths of the
gofpel, and endeavours to guard them againft thofe er¬
roneous notions which the Jews had of juftification, and
of the eledlion of their own nation.
“ Now the Jews affigned three grounds for juftifica-
TTirft- < pYtnnrdinarv uietv and merits oi
tion. Firft, ‘ The extraordinary piety and merits of
their anccftors, and the covenant made by God with thefe
holy men.’ They thought God could not hate the chil-
SCR [ :
Scripture, dren of iucli meritorious parents j and as he had made
‘ a covenant with the patriarchs to blefs their pofterity,
he was obliged thereby to pardon their fins.’ Secondly,
‘ A perfect knowledge and diligent ftudy of the law of
Mofes.’ They made this, a plea for the remiflion of all
their fins and vices. Thirdly, ‘ The works of the Levi-
tical law,’ which were to expiate fin, efpecialiy circum-
cifion and facrifices. Hence they inferred that the Gen¬
tiles muft receive the whole law of Mofes, in order to
be juftified and faved.
“ -f he doflrine of the Jews concerning eleflion was,
‘That as God had promifed to Abraham to blefs his
feed, to give him not only fpiritual bleflings, but al¬
io the land of Canaan, to fuffer him to dwell there in
, profperity, and to confider him as his church upon
earth:’ That therefore this blefling extended to their
whole nation, and that God was bound to fulfil thefe
promifes to them, whether they were righteous or wick¬
ed, faithful or unbelieving. They even believed that a
prophet ought not to pronounce againft their nation the
prophecies with which he was infpired ; but was rather
to beg of God to expunge his name out of the book of
the living.
“ Thefe previous remarks will ferve as a key to
unlock this difficult Epillle, of which we thall now give
a ffiort analyfis. See Mickaelis1 s Lectures on the Neiv
iSo Tejiament.
and analy- “ f■ 1 he Epifile begins with the ufual falutation with
ihcfit. which the Greeks began their letters, (chap. i. i—7.)
“ II. St Paul profefies his joy at the flouriffiing date
of the church at Rome, and his defire to come and
preach the gofpel (ver. 8—19.) : then he infenfibly in¬
troduces the capital point he intended to prove, viz.
“ III. The fubjedf of the gofpel (ver. 16, ty.)* that
it reveals a righteoufnefs unknown before, which is de¬
rived folely from faith, and to which Jews and Gentiles
have an equal claim.
“ IV. In order to prove this, he firows (chap. i. 18.—
iii. 20.) that both Jews and Gentiles are ‘ under fin,’
i. e. that God will impute their fins to Jews as well as to
Gentiles.
“ His arguments may be reduced to thefe fyllogifms
(chap. ii. 17—24.) 1. ‘ The wrath of God is reveal¬
ed againft thofe who hold the truth in unrighteouf-
nefs; i. e. who acknowledge the truth, and yet fin
againft it. 2. The Gentiles acknowledged truths ; but,
partly by their idolatry, and partly by their other
deteftable vices, they finned againft the truth they ac¬
knowledged. 3. Therefore the wTrath of God is re¬
vealed againft the Gentiles, and puniffieth them. 4. The
Jews have acknowledged more truths than the Gen¬
tiles, and yet they fin. 5. Confequently the Jewith Tin¬
ners are yet more expofed to the wrath of God (ch. ii.
I—12. Having thus proved his point, he anfwers
certain obje&ions to it. Oh/, j. 1 The Jews were well
grounded in their knowledge, and ftudied the law.’
He anfwers, If the knowledge of the law, without ob-
ferving it, could juftify them, then God could not have
condemned the Gentiles, who knew the law by nature,
(ch. ii. 13—16.) Ohj. 2. ‘ The Jews were circumci-
fed.’ Anf. That is, ye are admitted by an outward
fign into the covenant with God. This fign will not
avail you when ye violate that covenant (ch. ii. 2v to
the end). Obj, 3. ‘ According to this doftrine of St
Paul, the Jews have no advantage before others.’ Anf.
1.6 ] sc it
^ es, they ftill have advantages j for unto them are com- Scripture,
mitted the oracles of God. But their privileges do not " v~“*
extend to this, that God fiiould overlook their fins, which,
on the contrany, Scripture condemns even in the Jews
(ch. iii. 1—19')‘ U’°j. 4. ‘ 1 hey had the Levitical law
and facrifiecs.’ Anf. From hence is no remiffion, but on¬
ly the knowledge of fin. (ch. iii. 20.).
“ y. From all this St Paul concludes, that Jews and
Gentiles may be juftified by the fame means, namely,
without the Levitical law, through faith in Chrift :
And in oppolition to the imaginary advantages of the
Jews, he ftates the declaration of Zechariah, that God is
the God of the Gentiles as well as of the Jews, (ch. iii.
21. to the end.
\T. As the whole bleffing was promifed to the faith¬
ful defeendents of Abraham, which both Scripture and
the Jews call his children, he proves his former affer-
tion from the example of Abraham ; w-ho was an idola-
ter before his call, but was declared juft by God, on ac¬
count of his faith, long before his circumciiion. Hence
ile. ja^-es occafion to explain the nature and fruits of
faith, (ch. iv. 1. v. 11.).
“ VII. He goes on to prove from God’s juftice, that
the Jews had no advantages over the Gentiles with re-
fpeft to juftification. Both Jews and Gentiles had for¬
feited file and immortality, by the means of one common
father of their race, whom they themfelves had not cho-
fen. Now as God w'as willing to reftore immortality
by a new fpiritual head of a covenant, viz. Chrift, it was
juft that both Jews and Gentiles ftiould fhare in this
new reprefentative of the rvhole race (ch. v. 12. to the
end)..—Chap. v. ver. 15, 16. amounts to this negative
queftion, ‘ Is it not fitted that the free gift ftiould extend
as far as the offence ?’
“ VIII. He fhows that the doctrine of juftification, as
ftated by him, lays us under the ftrongeft obligations of
holinefs, (ch. vi. 1. to the end).
“ IX. He ftiows that the law' of Mofes no longer con¬
cerns us at all; for our juftification arifes from our ap¬
pearing in God’s fight, as if a&ually dead with Chrift on
account of our fins ; but the law of Mofes was not given
to the dead. On this occafion he proves at large, that
the eternal power of God over us is not affe&ed by this j
and that whilft we are under the law of Mofes we per¬
petually become fubjeft to death, even by fins of inad¬
vertency, (ch. vii. 1. to the end).
“ X. Flence he concludes, that all thofe, and thofe
only, who are united wuth Chrift, and for the fake of his
union, do not live according to the fiefti, are free from
all condemnation of the law, and have an undoubted
(hare in eternal life, (ch. viii. 1.—17.).
“ XI. Having deferibed their bleffednefs, he is aw^are
that the Jews, wffio expefled a temporal happinefs, fhould
objedft to him, that Chriftians notwithftanding endure
much fuffering in this wmrld. He anfwers this obje&ion
at large, (ch. viii. 18 to the end).
“ XII. He ftiows that God is not the lefs true and
faithful, becaufe he doth not juftify, but rather rejefts
and puniflies, thofy Jews who would not believe the Mef-
fiah, (ch. ix. x. xi.). In difeuffing this point, wre may
obferve the cautious manner in which, on account of the
Jewifti prejudices, he introduces it (ch. ix. 1.—5.), as
well as in the difeuffion itfelf.
“ He ftiows that the promifes of God were never
made to all the poftcrity of Abraham, and that God al¬
ways
SCR [ 37 ]
Scripture, ways referred to himfelf the power of choofing thofe fons cult cafes which
•—V—-1 of Abraham whom, for Abraham’s fake, he intended to
blefs, and of punifhing the wicked fons of Abraham ;
and that with refpeft to temporal happinefs or mifery,
he -was not even determined in his choice by their works.
Thus he rejected IPnmael, Efaii, the Israelites in the de-
fert in the time of Mofes, and the greater part of that
people in the time of Ifaiah, making them a Sacrifice
to his juftice, (ch. ix. 6.—29.).
“ He then proceeds to fhow, that God had reafon to
rejecl mofl of the lews then living, becaufe they would
not believe in the Meffiah, though the gofpel had been
preached to them plainly enough, (ch. ix. 30. x. to the
end). However, that God had not rejedled all the peo¬
ple, but was ftill fulfilling his promife upon many thou-
fand natural defcendants of Abraham, who believed in
the Mefliah, and wmidd in a future period fulfil them
upon more ; for that all Ifrael would be converted, (ch.
xi. 1—32.). And he concluded with admiring the w’ife
counfels of God, (ver. 33. to the end).
“ XIII. From the doftrine hitherto laid down, and
particularly from this, that God has in mercy accepted
the Gentiles •, he argues, that the Romans fhould con-
fecrate and offer theinfelves up wholly to God. This
leads him to mention in particular fome Chriftian duties,
(ch. xii.), viz.
“ XIV. He exhorts them to be fubjedl to magi-
fffates (ch. xiii. 1—7.) 5 the Jews at that time being
given to fedition.
“ XV. To love one another heartily (ver. 2—10.).
And,
“ XVI. To abftain from thofe vices w'hich w'ere con-
fidered as things indifferent among the Gentiles, (ver. 11.
to the end).
^ “XVII. He exhorts the Jews and Gentiles in the
Chriftian church to brotherly unity, (ch. xiv. 2. xv.
I3-)-
“ XVIII. He concludes his Epiftle with an excufe
for having ventured to admonifh the Romans, whom he
had not converted ; with an account of the journey to
Jerufalem; and with fome falutations to thofe perfons
■whom he meant to recommend to the church at Rome.”
See Michaelis's Lectures on the New TeJ}ament.
Corinth was a wealthy and luxurious city, built upon
: iilhmus which joins the Morea to "the northern
parts of Greece. In this city Paul had fpent two
years founding a Chriftian church, which confifted of
a mixture of Jews and Gentiles, but the greater part
Gentiles.
About three years after the apoftleshad left Corinth,
he wrote this Epiftle from Ephefus in the year 56 or
57, and in the beginning of Nero’s reign. That it
was written from Ephefus, appears from the falutation
with which the Epiftle clofes, (chap. xvi. 19.). “ The
churches of Afia falute you. Aquila and Prifcilla falute
you much in the Lord.” From thefe words it is evi¬
dent, in the ift place, that the Epiftle was written in
Afia. 2dly, It appears from Afts xviii. 18, 19. that
Aquila and Prifcilla accompanied Paul from Corinth to
Ephefus, where they feem to have continued till Paul’s
departure.
_ St Paul had certainly kept up a conftant intercourfe
with the churches which he had founded 5 for he was
evidently acquainted with all their revolutions. They
feem to have applied to him for advice in thofe diffi-
s c u
their own underftanding could not Scripture,
A reproof
their vices;
Firft Epiftle ,
to the Co-
rinthians
183
Its date
folve ; and he was ready on all occafions to correct their
miftakes. ,
This Epiftle confifts of two parts. 1.
for thofe vices to which they were molt propenfe; fign of it.
2. An anfwer to fome queries which they had propofed
to him.
The Corinthians, like the other Greeks, had been
accuftomed to fee their phiiofophers divide themfelves
into different fefls; and as they brought along with
them into the Chriftian church their former opinions
and cuftoms, they wilhed, as before, to arrange them¬
felves under different leaders. In this Epiftle Paul pp^trf
condemns thefe divifions as inconfiftent wuth the fpirittie reproves
of Chriftianity, which inculcates benevolence and una-the Corin-
nimity, and as oppofite to the conduct of Chriftianthians for
teachers, who did not, like the phiiofophers, afpire af¬
ter the praife of eloquence and wifdom. They laid no
claim to thefe nor to any honour that cometh from
men. The apoftle declares, that the Chriftian truths
were revealed from heaven ; that they were taught with
great plainnefs and fimplicity, and proved by the evi¬
dence of miracles, (chap. i. 1.). He diffuades them
from their divifions and animofities, by reminding them
of the great trial which every man’s wmrk muff: under¬
go ; of the guilt they incurred by polluting the temple
or church of God ; of the vanity of human wifdom ;
and of glorying in men. He admonifhes them to efteem
the teachers of the gofpel only as the fervants of Chrift ;
and to remember that every fuperior advantage which
they enjoyed was to be afcribed to the goodnefs of God,
(chap. hi. 4.).
2. In the fifth chapter the apoftle confiders the cafe
of a notorious offender, wLo had married his ftepmo-
ther; and tells them, that he ought to be excommuni¬
cated. He alfo exhorts the Chriftians not to affociate
with any perfon wTho led fuch an openly profane life.
3. He cenfures the Corinthians for their litigious dif-
pofition, which caufed them to profecute their Chri¬
ftian brethren before the Heathen courts. He exprefles
much warmth and furprife that they did not refer their
differences to their brethren ; and concludes his exhorta¬
tions on this fubjedl, by alluring them that they ought
rather to allow themfelves to be defrauded than to feek
redrefs from Heathens (chap. v. 1—9.).
4. He inveighs againft thofe vices to which the Co¬
rinthians had been addidled before their converfion, and
efpecially againft fornication, the criminality of which
they did not fully perceive, as this vice wms generally
overlooked in the fyftems of the phiiofophers, (chap. vi.
10. to the end).
Having thus pointed out the public irregularities, ,J
with which they were chargeable, he next replies to cer- fw^r/ce'r.
tain queftions which the Corinthians had propofed totainque-
him by letter. He, 1. Determines fome queftions re-flLnswhkh
lating to the marriage ftate ; as, ift, Whether it vvasthey had
good to marry under the exifting circumftances of lhe^pofedt°
church ? And, 2d, Whether they ftrould withdraw
from their partners if they continued unbelievers >.
(chap. vii.).
2. He inftrudls them how to a£l with refpecl to idol
offerings. It could not be unlawful in itfelf to eat the
food which had been offered to idols ; for the confecra-
tion of flelh or wine to an idol did not make it the pro¬
perty of the idol, an. idol being nothing, and therefore-
incapable..
185
scr r .38
Scripture, incapable of property. But fome Corinthians thought
v—lawful to go to a feaft in the idol temples, which at
the fame time were places of refort for lewdnefs, and
to eat the facrifices whilft praifes were fung to the idol.
This was publicly joining in the idolatry. He even
advifes to abftain from fuch participation as was lawful,
rather than give offence to a weak brother ; which he
enforces by his own example, who had abfrained from
many lawful things, rather than prove a fcandal to the
gofpel, (chap. viii. ix. x.).
3. He anfwers a third query concerning the manner
in which women fhould deliver any thing in public,
when called to it by a divine impulfe. And here he
cenfures the unufual drefs of both fexes in prophefying,
which expofed them to the contempt of the Greeks,
among whom the men ufually went uncovered and the
women veiled.
Being thus led to the confideration of the abufes that
prevailed in their public worfhip, he goes on to cenfure
the irregularities which were committed at their love-
feafts, or, as rve term them, the LorcPs Supper. It was
a common practice with the Greeks at their facial fup-
pers for every man to bring his own provifions along
with him, not, however, to fhare them with the com¬
pany, but to feaft on them in a folitary manner. Thus
the rich ate and drank to excefs, whilft: the poor were
totally negle&ed. The Corinthians introduced the fame
practice in the celebration of the Lord’s Supper, thus
confounding it with their ordinary meals, and without
ever examining into the end of the inftitution. It was
this grofs abufe that Paul reproves in the nth chapter.
He alfo cenfures their eondud! in the exercifc of the ex¬
traordinary gifts of the Holy Ghoft ; he fhows them
they all proceeded from the fame fpirit, and were in¬
tended for the inftrudlion of Chriflian focieties *, that all
Chrillians ought to be united in mutual love ; and that
tendernefs ought to be fliown to the moft inconfiderable
member, as every one is fubfervient to the good of the
whole (chap. xii.). In the 13th chapter he gives a
beautiful defeription of benevolence, which has been
much and juftly admired. He reprefents it as fuperior
to the fupernatural gifts of the fpirit, to the moft exalt¬
ed genius, to univerfal knowledge, and even to faith.
In the 14th chapter he cautions the Corinthians againft
oftentation in the exercife of the gift of languages, and
gives them proper advices.
4. He afferts the refttrredlion of the dead, in oppofi-
tion to fome of the Corinthians who denied it, founding
it on the refurreftion of Jefus Chrift, which he confiders
as one of the moft efiential doddrincs of Chriftianity. He
then anfwers fome objeddions to the refurredlion, drawn
from our not being capable of underftanding bow it will
be accomplilhed, (chap. xv.). He then concludes with
fome direddions to the Corinthian church concerning the
manner of colledding alms •, promifes them a vifit, and
falutes fome of the members.
The fecond Epiftle to the Corinthians was written
from Macedonia in the year 57, about a year after the
former. See 2 Cor. ix. 1 — 9. viii. and xiii. 1.
St Paul’s firft Epiftle bad wrought different effedds
S-ate of the among the Corinthians : many of them examined their
Corinthian corKludd ; they excommunicated the inceftuous man ;
requefted St Paul’s return with tears; and vindicated
him and his office againft the falfe teacher and his adhe¬
rents. Others of them ftill adhered to that adverfary
4
iS<5
The fecond
E .iftle to
the Corin¬
thians.
1S7
] SCR
of St Paul, cxprefsly denied his apoftolic office, and even Scripture,
furniftted themfelves with pretended arguments from that
Epiftle. He had formerly promifed to take a journey
from Ephelus to Corinth, thence to vifit the Macedo¬
nians, and return from them to Corinth (2 Cor. i. 15,
16.). But the unhappy ftate of the Corinthian church
made him alter his intention (verfe 23.), fince he found
he muft have treated them with feverity. Hence his
adverfaries partly argued, 1. That St Paul was irrefo-
lute and unfteady, and therefore could not he a prophet:
2. The improbability of his ever coming to Corinth
again, fince he was afraid of them. Such was the ftate
of the Corinthian church when St Paul, after his depar¬
ture from Ephefus, having vifited Macedonia, (Adds
xx. 1.), received an account of the above particulars from
Titus (2 Cor. vii. 5, 6.), and therefore wrote them his
fecond Epiftle about the end of the fame year, or the
beginning of 58. i$8
But to give a more diftindl view of the contents of View of
• tt content
tins Epiftle: ... . ^ of this E-
1. The apoftle, after a general falutation, exprelies hispiftle.
grateful fenfe of the divine goodnefs; profeffing his con-
fidence in God, fupported by a fenfe of his own integri¬
ty ; makes an apology for not having vifited the Corin¬
thians as he had intended, and vindicates himfelf from
the charge of ficklenefs, (chap. i.).
2. He forgives the inceftuous man, whofe condudt
had made fo deep an impreflion on the apoftle’s mind,
that one reafon why he had deferred his journey to Co¬
rinth was, that he might not meet them in grief, nor
till he had received advice of the effect of his apoftolical
admonitions. He mentions his anxiety to meet Titus
at Troas, in order to hear of their welfare ; expreffes
his thankfulnefs to God for the _ fuccefs attending
his miniftry, and fpeaks of the Corinthians as his cre¬
dentials, written by the finger of God, (chap. ii. iii.
I.—6.).
3. He treats of the office committed to him of
preaching the redemption; and highly prefers it to
preaching the law : to which probably his adverfaries
had made great pretences. T hey had ridiculed his fuf-
ferings; which he fhows to be no difgrace to the go¬
fpel or its minifters ; and here he gives a fhort abftraft.
of the doftrine he preaches, (chap. iii. 6. v. to the
end).
He expatiates with great ccpioufnefs on the temper
with which, in the midft of affliftions and perfecutions,
he and his brethren executed their important embaffy ;
and with great affedftion and tendernefs he exhorts them
to avoid the pollution of idolatry, (chap. vi.). He en¬
deavours to win their confidence, by telling them how
much he rejoiced in their amendment and welfare, and
how forty he had been for the diftrefs which his necef-
fary reproofs had occafioned, (chap. vii.). He then ex¬
horts them to make liberal contributions for the Chri-
flians in Judaea. He recommends to them the example
of the Macedonians, and reminds them of the benevo¬
lence of the Lord Jefus. He expreffes his joy for the
readmefs of I itus to afiift in making the collefLon , and
makes alfo honourable mention of other Chnftian bre¬
thren, whom he had joined with Titus in the fame com-
miffion, chap, viii.)/ He then, with admirable addrefs,
urges a liberal contribution, and recommends them to
the divine bleffmg, (chap. ix.).
a. Next he obviates fome reflections which had been
thrown
S G R r 3
Scripture, thrown on him tor the niildneis of his conduft, as if it
had proceeded from fear. He afferts his apoi'tolical
-power and authority, cautioning his opponents againit
urging him to give too fenfible demonftrations of it,
(chap. x.). He vindicates himfelf againft the infinua-
tions of fome of the Corinthians, particularly for having
declined pecuniary fupport from the church •, an aftion
which had been ungeneroully turned to his difadvan-
tage. To (how his fuperiority over thofe defigning
men who had oppofed his preaching, he enumerates his
fufferings •, gives a detail of fome extraordinary revela¬
tions which he had received 5 and vindicates himfelf
from the charge of boafting, by declaring that he had
been forced to it by the defire of fupporting his apoftoli-
cal charadler, (chap. xi. xii.). He clofes the Epiftle,
by affuring them with great tendernefs how much it
would grieve him to demonftrate his divine commiffion
o by feverer methods.
Epiftle to The Galatians were defcended from thofe Gauls who
the Gala- had formerly invaded Greece, and afterwards fettled in
bans. Lower Afia. St Paul had preached the gofpel among
them in the year 51, foon after the council held at Jeru-
falem, (Afts xvi. 6.). Afia fwarmed at that time with
zealots for the law of Mofes, who wanted to impofe it
on the Gentiles, ( A£ts xv. 1.). Soon after St Paul had
left the Galatians, thefe falfe teachers had got among
them, and wanted them to be circumcifed, &c. This
occafioned the following Epiftle, which Michaelis thinks
was written in the fame year, before St Paul left Thef-
Th/date faloniea. Dr Lardner dates it about the end of the year
52, or in the very beginning of 53, before St Paul fet
out to go to Jerufalem by way of Ephefus.
and'con- The fubjeft of this Epiftle is much the fame with
tentsefit. that of the Epiftle to the Romans-, only this queftion
is more fully confidered here, “ Whether circumcifion,
and an obfervance of the Levitical law, be neceflary to
the falvation of a Chriftian convert ?” It appears, thefe
Judaizing Chriftians, whofe indirect views St Paul ex-
pofes (Acfts xv. 1. Gal. v. 3, 9.), at firft only repre-
fented circumcifion as neceflary to falvation j but after-
wards they infilled upon the Chriftians receiving the
Jewifti feftivals, (Gal. iv. 10.).
As St Paul had founded the churches of Galatia, and
inftru&ed them in the Chriftian religion, he does not fet
before them its principal do&rines, as he had done in
the Epiftle to the Romans ; but referring them to what
he had already taught (chap. i. 8, 9.), he proceeds at
once to the fubjeft of the Epiftle,
As it appears from feveral paflages of this Epiftle,
particularly chap. i. 7, 8, 10, and chap. v. 11. that
the Judaizing Chriftians had endeavoured to perfuade
the Galatians that Paul himfelf had changed his opi¬
nion, and now preached up the Levitical law ; he de¬
nies that charge, and affirms that the doflrines which
he had taught were true, for he had received thein from
God by immediate revelation. He relates his miracu¬
lous converfion ; aflerts his apoftolical authority, which
had been acknowledged by the difciples of Jefus ; and,
as a proof that he had never inculcated a compliance
with the Mofaic law, he declares that he had oppofed
Peter at Antioch for yielding to the prejudices ef the
Jews.
Having now vindicated his character from the fufpi-
cion of ficklenefs, and ftiown that his commiffion was
9 ] SCR
divine, he argues that the Galatians ought not to fub- Scripture.^
mit to the law ot Mofes ; 1. Becaufe they had received ^ ^
the Holy Ghoft and the gift of miracles, not by the ArgUnients
law, but by the gofpel, (chap. iii. 1—5•)• 2- Becauleby which
the promifes which God made to Abraham were nottheapoftle
reftrifted to his circumcifed defendants, but extended
to all who are his children by faith, (chap. iii. 6—Motes was
In anfwer to the objeflion, To what then ferveth not obliga-
/aw? he replies, That it was given becaufe of tranf-tory on the
greflion that is, to preferve them from idolatry till theGalatian?-
Meffiah himfelf Ihould come. 3. Becaufe all men, whe-Locke on
ther Jews or Gentiles, are made the children of God by
faith, or by receiving the Chriftian religion, and there-7 16 '
fore do not Hand in need of circumcifion, (chap. iii. 26
—29.). From the lit verfe of chap. iv. to the 11th,
he argues that the law was temporary, being only fitted
for a ftate of infancy } but that the world, having at¬
tained a ftate of manhood under the Mefliah, the law
was of no farther ufe. In the remaining part of chap¬
ter iv. he reminds them of their former affedlion to him,
and affures them that he was ftill their fincere friend.
He exhorts them to Hand faft in the liberty with which
Chrift had made them free ; for the fons of Agar, that
is, thofe under the law given at Mount Sinai, are in
bondage, and to be cart out ; the inheritance being de-
figned for thofe only who are the free-born fons of God
under the fpiritual covenant of the gofpel. 193
The apoftle next confutes the falfe report which had^0^
been fpread abroad arnang the Galatians, that Paul
himfelf preached up circumcifion. He had already in-chara<fter
direflly refuted this calumny by the particular account from falfe
which he gave of his life 5 but he now directly and afperfions.
openly contradidls it in the following manner :
1. By alluring them, that all who thought circumci¬
fion neceflary to falvation could receive no benefit from
the Chriftian religion, (chap. v. 2—4.).
2. By declaring, that he expected juftification only
by faith, (verfe 5, 6.).
3. By teftifying, that they had once received the
truth, and had never been taught fuch falfe doctrines
by him, (verfe 7, 8.).
4. By infinuating that they fliould pafs fome cenfure
on thofe who milled them (ver. 9, 10.), by declaring
that he was perfecuted for oppofing the circumcifton
of the Chriftians, (ver. 11.).
5. By expreffing a with that thofe perfons fhould be
cut off who troubled them with his doftrine.
This Epiftle affords a fine inftance of Paul’s Ikill in
managing an argument. The chief objection which
the advocates for the Mofaic law had urged againft
him was, that he himfelf preached circumcifion. In
the beginning of the Epiitle he overturns this fiander
by a ftatement of faffs, without taking any exprefs
notice of it but at the end fully refutes it, that it
might leave a ftrong and lafting impreffion on their
minds. %
He next cautions them againfi: an idea which his ar¬
guments for Chriftian liberty might excite, that it con¬
fided in licentioufnefs. He {hows them it does not
confift in gratifying vicious defires; for none are
under ftronger obligations to moral duties than the Chri-
ftian. He recommends gentlenefs and meeknefs to the
weak (chap. vi. 1—5.), and exhorts them to be liberal
to their teachers, and to all men (ver. 6—10.). He
concludes
S C Pi
Scripture
7 94
Epiftle to
the Ephefi
ant.
■ . *95
The date
ipd
and defion
of if.
197
Epiftle to
the Philip¬
pian?.
concludes with expofing the falfe pretences of the Ju
daizing teachers, and averting, the integrity of his own
conduct.
Ephefus was the chief city of all Afia on this fide
Mount Taurus. St Paul had paffed through it in the
year 54, but without making any flay, (AcSs xviii. 19
—21.). The following year he returned to Ephefus
again, and ftaid there three years, (chap. xix.). Du¬
ring his abode there he completed a very flouriflring
church of Chriftians, the firft foundations of which had
been laid by fome inferior teachers. As Ephefus was
frequented by perfons of diftindiion from all parts of
Afia Minor, St Paul took the opportunity of preach¬
ing in the ancient countries (ver. 10.) ; and the other
churches of Afia were confidered as the daughters of
the church of Ephefus ; fo that an Epiftle to the Ephe-
fians was, in effedf, an epiflle to the other churches of
Afia at the fame time.
Dr Lardner {hows it to be highly probable that this
epiftle was written in the year 61, loon after Paul’s ar¬
rival at Home.
As Paul was in a peculiar manner the apoftle of the
Gentiles, and was now a prifoner at Rome in confe-
quence of having provoked the jews, by afferting that
an obfervance of the Mofaic law wras not neceflary to
obtain the favour of God, he was afraid leaft an advan¬
tage fhould be taken of his confinement to unfettle the
minds of thofe whom he had converted. Hearing that
the Ephefians flood firm in the faith of Chrift, without
fubmitting to the law of Mofes, he w rites this Epiille
to give them more exalted view's of the love ©f God, and
of the excellence and dignity of Chrift. This epiftle
is not compofed in an argumentative or didadlic ftyle :
The firft three chapters confift almoft entirely of thankf-
givings and prayers, or glowing defcriptions of the
blefiings of the Chriilian religion. This circumftauce
renders them a little obfcure ; but by the affiftance of
the two following epiftles, which w’ere written on the
fame occafion, and wuth the fame defign, the meaning
of the apoftle may be eafily difcovered. The laft three
chapters contain pradlical exhortations. He firft incul¬
cates unity, love, and concord, from the confideration
that all Chriftians are members of the fame body, of
which Chrift is the head. He then advifes them to
forfake the vices to which they had been addidled while
they remained heathens. He recommends juftice and
charity ; ftrenuoufly condemns lewdnefs, obfcenily, and
intemperance, vices which feem to have been too com¬
mon among the Ephefians. In the 6th chapter he points
out the duties which arife from the relations of hufbands
and rtives, parents and children, mailers and fervants ;,
and concludes with ftrong exhortations to fortitude,
vyhich he defcribes in an allegorical manner.
1 he church at Philippi had been founded by Paul,
Silas, and Timothy (Adis xvi.), in the year 51, and had
continued to ftiow a ftrong and manly attachment to
the Chriftian religion, and a tender affe&ion for the
apoftle. Hearing of his imprifonment at Rome, they
fent Epaohroditus, one of their pallors, to fupply him
with money. It appears from this epiftle that he w'as
in great want of neceffaries before this contribution ar¬
rived j for as he had not converted the Romans, he did
not confider himfelf as intitled to receive fupplies from
r 40 1
SCR
cuni ary a Qifiance from thofe churches where a faflicn Scripture,
had been raifed againft him. From the Philippians he  1
was not averfe to receive a prefent in the time of want,
becaufe he confidered it as a mark of their affeftion, and
becaufe he was allured that they had conduced them-
feh e? as fincere Chriftians. p
It appears from the apoftle’s own w-ords, that this The^ate
letter was written while he was a prifoner at Rome,
(chap. i. 7, 13. iv. 22.) j and from the expeflation which
he difcovers (chap. ii. 24.) of being loon releafed and
reftored^ to them, compared with Philemon v. 22. and
Heb. xiii. 13. where he exprefles a like expe&ation in
ftronger terms, it is probable that this epiftle was writ¬
ten towards the end of his firft imprifonment in the
year 62. _ _ I9p
I ne apoftle’s defign in this epiftle, which is quite and defign
of the pradlical kind, feems to be, “ to comfort theof i,:-
Philippians under the concern they had exprefled at the
new's of his imprifonment ; to check a party-fpirit that
appears to have broken out among them, and to pro¬
mote, on .the contrary, an entire union and harmony of
affedlion j to guard them againft being feduced from the
purity of the Chriftian faith by Judaizing teachers ; to
fupport them under the trials with wdiich they ftruggled j
and, above all, to infpire them with a concern to adorn
their profeflion by the moft eminent attainments in the
divine life.” After fome particular admonitions in the
beginning of the 4th chapter, he proceeds in the 8th
verfe to recommend virtue in the moft extenfive fenfe,
mentioning all the different foundations in which it had
been placed by the Grecian philofophers. Towards the
clofe of the epiftle, he makes his acknowledgements to
the Philippians for the feafonable and liberal fupply
which they had fent him, as it wTas fo convincing a proof
of their afteCtion for him, and their concern for the fup¬
port of the gofpel, which he preferred far above any
private fecular intereft of his own ; exprefsly declaiming
all felfifh, mercenary view's, and affuring them with a
noble fimplicity, that he wTas able upon all occafions to
accommodate his temper to his circumftances; and had
learned, under the teachings of Divine grace, in what¬
ever ftation Providence might fee fit to place him, there-
wfith to be content. After which, the apoftle, having
encouraged them to expert a rich fupply of all their
wants from their God and Father, to w'hom he devoutly
afcribes the honour of all, concludes with falutations
from himfelf and his friends at Rome to the whole
church, and a folemn benedidlion, (verfe 10. to the
end) *, and declares, that he rejoiced in their liberality
chiefly on their own account. 7QO
The epiftle to the Coloflians w'as written while Paul Kpiftle to
was in prifon (chap. iv. 3.), and was therefore probably th? C 'lotn-
compofed in the year 62. The intention of the apoftle, aiA—^ate
as far as can be gathered from the epiftle itfelf, w'as to^jr^ el3^a
fecure the ColoftianS-from the influence of fome doc¬
trines that were fubverfive of Chriftianity, and to excite
them to a temper and behaviour worthy of their facred
charadler. A new feift had arifen, which had blended
the oriental philofophy with the fuperftitious opinions of
the Jew's.
20T
They held, 1. That God was furrounded by demons To guard
or a.ugels, who were mediators with Trod, and therefore theColoffi-
to be wot (hipped. 2. That the foul is defiled by theans a§K'n^;
not connaer mmieir as intiuea to receive lupphes from to be worftnpped. 2. J hat the ioul is defiled by theans a§ain“;
them. Being a prifoner, he could not work as former- , body ; that all bodily enjoyments hurt the foul, W'hich l^e ^anScr“
jy } and it was a maxim of his never to accept any pe- they believed to be immortal, though they feem to havetrinesof
3 denied the Jews.
Percy’s
Key to the
New Te-
Jhanent.
202
The argu¬
ments
which the
ploys,
S C R
Scripture, denied the refuneftion of the body, as it.
——o——^ render the foul finful by being reunited td it. 3. That
there was a great myitery in numbers, particularly in
the number feven ; they therefore attributed a natural
holinefs to the feventh or Sabbath day, which they ob-
ferved more ftri&ly than the other Jews. They fpent
their time mollly in contemplation ; abftained from mar¬
riage, and every gratification of the fenfes j ufed vvalh-
ings, and thought it finful to touch certain things ; re¬
garded wine as poifon, &c.
The arguments againft thefe do&rines are managed
with great {kill and addrefs. He begins with exprefiing
great joy for the favourable character which he had
em' heard of them, and affures them that he daily prayed
for their farther improvement. Then he makes a fiiort
digreffion, in order to defcribe the dignity of Jefus
Chrift ; declares that he had created all things, whether
thrones or dominions, principalities and powers; that he
alone was the head of the church, and had reconciled
men to the Father. The inference from this defcription
is evident, that .lefus was fuperior to angels 5 that they
were created beings, and ought not to be worfhipped.
Thus he indireftly confutes one doctrine before he for¬
mally oppofes it. Paul nowT returns from his digreffion
in the 21ft verfe to the fentiments with which he had
introduced it in the 13th and 14th verfes, and again
expreffies his joy that the Philippians remained attached
to the gofpel, which was to be preached to the Gentiles,
without the reftraints of the ceremonial law. Here again
he dates a general do&rine, which was inconfillent with
the opinions of thofe who were zealous for the law of
Mofes} but he leaves the Coloffians to draw the infer¬
ence, (chap. i.).
Having again affured them of his tender concern for
their welfare, for their advancement in virtue, and that
they might acknowledge the myftery of God, that is,
that the gofpel was to fuperfede the law of Mofes, he
proceeds direflly to caution them againft the philofophy
of the new teachers, and their fuperftitious adherence to
the law ; (hows the fuperiority of Chrifl: to th? angels,
and warns Chriftians agamft. worihipping them. He
cenfures the obfervation of Sabbaths, and rebukes thofe
who required abltinence from certain kinds of food, and
cautions them againft; perfons who affume a great appear¬
ance of wifdom and virtue, (chap. ii.).
In the 3d chapter he exhorts them, that, inftead of
being occupied about external ceremonies, they ought
to cultivate pure morality. He particularly guards them
againfl impurity, to which they had before their con-
verfion been much addifled. He admonifties them
againft indulging the irafcible paffions, and againft
committing falfehood. He exhorts them to cultivate
the benevolent affe&ions, and humility, and patience.
He recommends alfo the relative duties between huf*
bands and wives, parents and children, mafters and fer-
vants. He enjoins the duties of prayer and thankfgivmg
(chap. iv. 2.), and requefts them to remember him in
their petitions. He enjoins affability and mild behavi¬
our to the unconverted heathens (verfe 6th) ; and con¬
cludes the epiftle with matters which are all of a private
nature, except the direftions for reading this epiftle
in the church of Laodicea, as well as in the church of
FirftE’iiftle
tutheThef- This epiftle is addreffed to the inhabitants of Theffa-
falonians. VoL. XIX. Part I.
203 .
Exhorta¬
tions.
[ 41 ] SCR
would only lonica, the capital of Macedonia, a large and populous Scripture.
city. It appears from the Adds, chapter xvii. 1. that —“v—
the Chriftian religion was introduced into this city by-
Paul and Silas, {oon after they had left Philippi. At
firft they made many converts \ but at length the Jews,
ever jealous of the admiffion of the Gentiles to the fame
privileges with themfelves, ftirred up the rabble, which
afiaulted the houfe where the apoftle and his friends
lodged 5 fo that Paul and Silas were obliged to flee to
Berea, where their fuccefs was foon interrupted by the
fame reftlefs and implacable enemies. The apoftle then
withdrew to Athens \ and Timothy, at his defire, re¬
turned to Theffalonica (x Theff. hi. 2.), to fee .what
were the fentiments and behaviour of the inhabitants
after the perfecution of the Jews. From Athens Paul
went to Corinth, where he ftayed a year and fix months j
during which, Timothy returned with the joyful tidings,
that the Theffalonians remained ftedfaft to the faith, and
firmly attached to the apoftle, notwithftanding his flight.
Upon this he fent them this epiftle, A. D. 52, in the
12th year of Claudius. 205
This is generally reckoned the firft epiftle which Paul The date
wrote j and we find he was anxious that it ftiould be
read to all the Chriftians. In chap. v. 27. he ufes thefe
words , “ I adjure you by the Lord, that this epiftle be
read unto all the holy brethren.” This diredion is very
properly inferted in his firft epiftle. . 20(j
The intention of Paul in writing this epiftle was evi- and defiga
dently to encourage the Theffalonians to adhere to the 01 it. #
Chriftian religion. This church being ftill in its in¬
fancy, and oppreffed by the powerful Jews, required to
be eftabliffied in the faith. St Paul, therefore, in the
three firft chapters, endeavours to convince the Thefla-
lonians of the truth and divinity of his gofpel, both by
the miraculous gifts of the Holy Ghoft which had been
imparted, and by his owm condud when among them.
While he appeals, in the firft chapter, to the mira¬
culous gifts of the Holy Spirit, he is very liberal in
his commendations. He vindicates himfelf from the
charge of timidity, probably to prevent the Theffalo¬
nians from forming an unfavourable opinion of his for¬
titude, which his flight might have excited. He afferts,
that he was not influenced by felfilh or diftionourable
motives, but that he was anxious to pleafe God and not
man. He expreffes a ftrong affedion for them, and how
anxious he was to impart the bleffings of the gofpel.
He congratulates himfelf upon his fuccefs 5 mentions it
to their honour that they received the gofpel as the
word of God and not of man, and therefore did not re¬
nounce it when perfecution was raifed by the Jews. He
expreffes a ftrong defire to vifit the Theffalonians; and
affures them he had been hitherto retained againft his
will.
As a farther proof of his regard, the apoftle informs
them, that when be came to Athens, he was fo much
concerned, leaft, being difcouraged by his fufferings,
they Ihould be tempted to caft off their profeffion, that
he could not forbear fending Timothy to comfort and
ftrengthen them ; and expreffes, in very ftrong terms,
the fenfible pleafure lie felt, in the midft of all his afflic¬
tions, from the favourable account he received of their
faith and love ; to which he adds, that he was continu¬
ally praying for their farther eftablilhment in religion,
and for an opportunity of making them another vifit,' in
F order
S C R
Scripture, order to promote their edification, which lay fo near his
heart, (chap, iii, throughout).
Having now fhown his paternal afiFeftion for them,
with great addrefs he improves ail that influence which
his zeal and fidelity in their fervice mult naturally have
given him to inculcate upon them the precepts of the
gofpel. He recommends chaftity, in oppofition to the
prevailing practice of the heathens j juftice, in oppofi¬
tion to fraud. He praifes their benevolence, and en¬
courages them to cultivate higher degrees of it. He
recommends induftry and prudent behaviour to their
heathen neighbours. In order to comfort them under
the lofs of their friends, he aifures them that thofe who
were fallen afleep in Jefus ftiouid be railed again at the
laft day, and fliould, together with thole who remained
alive, be caught up to meet their Lord, and fliare his
triumph, (chap. iv.). He admonilhes them to prepare
for this folemn event, that it might not come upon them
unawares } and then concludes the epiftle with various
exhortations.
Second E- 1 he fecond epiftle to the Theffalonians appears to
piftie to have been written foon after the firfl:, and from the fame
place for Silvanus or Silas, and Timothy, are joined
together with the apoftle in the inferiptions of this
508 epiftle, as well as of the former.
Contents of 'i'he apoftle begins with commending the faith and
charity of the Thefialonians, of which he had heard a
favourable report. He expreffes great joy on account
of the patience with which they fupported perfecution ;
and obferves that their perfecution was a proof of a
righteous judgement to come, where their perfecutors
would meet with their proper recompenfe, and the
righteous be delivered out of a-ll their affiiftions. He
allures them of his conllant prayers for their farther im¬
provement, in order to attain the felicity that was pro-
mifed, (chap. i.).
From mifunderftanding a paflage in his former letter,
it appears that the Theffalonians believed the day of
judgement was at hand. To reftify this miftake, he
informs them that the day of the Lord will not come
till a great apoftacy has overfpread the Chriftian world,
the nature of which he deferibes (g). Symptoms of this
myftery of iniquity had then appeared 5 but the apoftle
expreffes his thankfulnefs to God that the Theffalo¬
nians had efcaped this corruption. He exhorts them
to ftedfaftnefs, and prays that God would comfort and
ftrengthen them, (chap. ii.).
He requefts the prayers of the Theffalonians for him
and his two aftiftants, at the fame time exprefling his
confidence that they would pay due regard to the in-
llnxftions which he had given them. He then pro¬
ceeds to correfl fome irregularities. Many of the
I heffalonians feem to have led an idle dilorderly life 5
thefe he feverely reproves, and commands the faithful
so9 to ^lun ^ieir company if they ftill remained incorri-
Firft Epiftle
to Timothy, When the firft Epiftle to Timothy was written, it is
when writ- difficult to afeertain. Lardner dates it in 56 ; Mill,
Whitby, and Macknight, place it in 64 : but the ar-
S C R
guments on which each party founds their opinion are Scripture,
too long to infert here. l~—   
Timothy was the intimate friend and companion ofjnte^I°
Paul, and is always mentioned by that apoltle with anci CG^
much affection and efteem. Having appointed him to tents oi it.
fuperintend the church of Ephelus during a journey
which he made to Macedonia, he wrote this letter, in
order to direft him how to diicharge the important truft
which was committed to him. This was the more ne-
ceffary, as Timothy was young and inexperienced,
(1 lim. iv. 12.). In the beginning of the epiftle he
reminds him of the charge with which he had intruded
him, to wit, to preferve the purity of the gofpel againit
the pernicious do&rines of the Judaizing teachers, whofe
opinions led to frivolous controverlies, and not to a good
life. He ihows the ule of the law' of Moles, of which
thefe teachers were ignorant. This account of the law',
he affures Timothy, was agreeable to the reprefentation
of it in the gofpel, with the preaching of which he was
intruded. He then makes a digreffion, in the fulnefs of
his heart, to exprefs the fenfe which he felt of the gcod-
nefs of God towards him.
In the fecond chapter, the apoftle preferibes the man¬
ner in which the worlhip of God was to be perfoimed in
the church ol Ephefus j and in the third explains the
qualifications of the ptrfons whom he was to ordain as
biftiops and deacons. In the fourth chapter he foretels
the great corruptions of the church which were to pre¬
vail in future times, and inftru&s him how to fupport
the facred character. In the fifth chapter he teaches
limothy how to admonilh the old and young of both
fexes 5 mentions the age and charafter of fuch widows
as were to be employed by the fociety in fome peculiar
office ; and lubjoins iome things concerning the refpedfc
due to elders. In the fixth chapter he deferibes the
duties which Timothy was to inculcate on Haves j con¬
demns trifling controverfies and pernicious difputes; cen-
fures the exceffive love of money, and charges the rich
to be rich in good -works. 2ir
That the fecond Epiftle to Timothy was written Second E-
from Rome is univerfally agreed j but whether it was P^,e to
during his firft or fecond imprifonment has been much
difputed. That Timothy was at Ephefus or in Afia
Minor when this Epiftle was fent to him, appears from
the frequent mention in it of ptrfons refiding at Ephe- 2IJ
fus. The apoftle feems to have intended to prepare Ti-Ujfign and
mothy for thofe bufferings which he forefaw he would contents
be expofed to. He exorts him to conftancy and perfe- ^*
verance, and to perform with a good conicience the du- .
ties of the facred function.
The falfe teachers, who had before thrown this
church into confufion, grew every day worfe : infomuch
that not only Hymenaeus, but Philetus, another Ephe-
ftan heretic, now denied the refuneftion of the dead.
They were led into this error by a difpute about words.
At firft they only annexed various improper fignifica-
tiens to the word refurreflion, but at laft they denied it
altogether (n) ; pretending that the refurrediion of the
dead was only a refurredtion from the death of fin, and
fo
[ 42 ]
(g) For an explanation of this prophecy, Dr Hurd’s Sermons may be confulted. Pie applies it to the papal
power, to which it correfponds with aftonifhing exadlnefs.
(h) This is by no means uncommon among men j to begin to difpute about the fignification of words, and
to
S G Pv [4
Scripture, fo was already part. This error was probably deri-
ved from the eaftern philofophy, which placed the
origin of fin in the body (chapter ii.). He then
forewarns him of the fatal apoitacy and declenfion that
was beginning to appear in the church ; and at the
fame time animates him, from his own example and
the great motives of Chriitianity, to the moft vigorous
and reiblute difcharge of every part of the minifterial
ai3 office‘
Epiftle to This Epiftle is addreffed to Titus, whom Paul had
Thus. appointed to prefide over the church of Crete. It is
difficult to determine either its date or the place from
which it was fent. The apoftle begins with reminding
2T4 Titus of the reafons for which he had left him at
Defign and Crete ; and direffs him on what principles he was to
contents of a& jn ordaining Chridian pallors : the qualifications of
wffiom he particularly defcribes. To ffiow him how
cautious he ought to be in felebling men for the facred
office, he reminds him of the arts of the .Tudaizing
teachers, and the bad charafter of the Cretans (chap¬
ter i.).
He advifes him to accommodate his exhortations to
the refpeftive ages, fexes, and circumftances, of thofe
whom it was his duly to inilruc! ; and to give the
greater weight to his inftrublious, he admonilhes him
to be an example of what he taught (chap. ii.). Pie
exhorts him alfo to teach obedience to the civil magi-
firate, becaufe the Judaizing Chriftians affirmed that no
obedience was due from the worffiippers of the true
God to magiftrates who w’ere idolaters. He cautions
againft cenforioufnefs and contention, and recommends
meeknefs ; for even the bell Chriftians had formerly
been wicked, and all the bleffings which they enjoyed
they derived from the goodnefs of God. He then en¬
joins Titus ftrenuoufly to inculcate good works, and to
avoid ufelefs controverfies ; and concludes with direct¬
ing him howT to proceed wfith thofe heretics who at-
2l _ tempted to fow diflenfion in the church.
Epiftle to The epiltle to Philemon w'as written from Rome at
Philemon, the fame time with the Epiltles to the Coloffians and
'(pate aml Philippians, about A, D. 62 or 63. The occafion of
iie.ign ol it. jej.j.er was tlris : Onelimus, Philemon’s Have, had
robbed his mailer and fled to Rome •, wffiere, happily
for him, he met with the apoltle, who was at that time
a prifoner at large, and by his inltruCtions and admoni¬
tions was converted to Chriitianity ; and reclaimed to a
Dottrin'd- fenfe of his duty. St Paul feems to have kept him for
-fe's F/im/ly fome confiderable time under his eye, that he might be
Exj>oJitor. nf rea]Jty of the change ; and, when he had
made a fufficient trial of him, and found that his beha¬
viour w^as entirely agreeable to his profeffion, he would
not detain him any longer for his own private conveni¬
ence, though in a fituation that rendered fuch an affilt-
ant peculiarly defirable (compare ver. 13, 14.), but fent
him back to his maflerj and, as a mark of his elteem,
entrufted him, together with Tychicus, with the charge
ot delivering his Epiltle to the church at Coloffe, and
giving them a particular account' of the Hate of things
at Rome, recommending him to them, at the fame
time, as a faithful and beloved brother (Col. iv. 9.).
! ] SCR.
And as Philemon might well be fuppofed to be ftrongly Scripture,
prejudiced againft one who had left his fervice in fo '“■“'v-*--'
infamous a manner, he fends him this letter, in which
he employs all his influence to remove his fufpicions,
and reconcile him to the thoughts of taking Onelimus
into his family again. And wdiereas St Paul might
have exerted that authority which his charabler as an
apoftle, and the relation in which he flood to Philemon
as a fpiritual father, would naturally give him, he choo-
fes to entreat him as a friend ; and with the lofteft and
moft infinuating addrefs urges his fuit, conjuring him
by all the ties of Chriftian friendlhip that he would not
deny him his requeft : and the more effeblually to pre¬
vail upon him, he reprefents his own peace and happi-
nefs as deeply interefted in the event; and Ipeaks of O-
nefimus in fuch terms as were belt adapted to foften his
prejudices, and difpofe him to receive one who was fo
dear to himfelf, not merely as a fervant, but as a fellow
Chriftian and a friend.
It is impoffible to read over this admirable Epiftle, The {kill
without being touched with the delicacy of fentiment,;inci addn fs
and the mafterly addrefs that appear in every part of it.
We fee here, in a moft ftriking light, how perfe&ly con- cover5 ;n
fiftent true politenefs is, not only with all the warmth this Epiftle.
and fincerity of the friend, but even with the dignity of
the Chriftian and the apoftle. And if this letter were
to be conlldered in no other view than as a mere human
compofition, it mull be allowed a mafter-piece in its
kind. As an illuftration of this remark, it may not be
improper to compare it with an epiftle of Pliny, that
feems to have been written upon a fimilar occalion, (lib,
ix. lit. 21) ; which, though penned by one that was rec¬
koned to excel in the epiitolary ilyle, and though it has
undoubtedly many beauties, yet muft be acknowledged,
by every impartial reader, vaftly inferior to this anima¬
ted compofition of the apoftle. 217
The epiftle to the Hebrews has been generally a- Epiftle to
fcribed to Paul ; but the truth of this opinion has been t^ie Ke"
fufpe&ed by others, for three reafons: 1. The name of
the writer is nowhere mentioned, neither in the begin- ^ p‘auj.
ning nor in any other part of the Epiftle. 2. The ftyle
is faid to be more elegant than Paul’s. 3. There are
expreffions in the Epiftle which have been thought un-
fuitable to an apoftle’s cbarafter. 1. In anfwer to the
firft objeclion, Clemens Alexandrinus has affigned a
very good reafon : “ Writing to the Hebrews (fays he),
who had conceived a prejudice againft him, and were ^7/7^
fufpicious of him, he rvifely declined fetting his name
at the beginning, left he ffiould offend them.” 2. Ori-
gen and Jerome admired the elegance of the ftyle, and
reckoned it fuperior to that which Paul has exhibited
in bis Epiftles : but as ancient teftimony had affigned it
to Paul, they endeavoured to anfwer the objeftion, by
fuppofing that the fentiments were the apoftle’s, but
the language and compofition the work of fome other
perfon. If the Epiftle, however, be a Iranflation,
which we believe it to be, the elegance of the language
may belong to the tranflator. As to the compofition
and arrangement, it cannot be denied that there are
many fpecimens in the writings of this apoltle not in-
F 2 fevior
to be led gradually to deny the thing fi?nified. This appears to have been the caufe of moft difputes, and the
general beginning of fcepticifm and infidelity.
Scripture.
218
Quoted as
his by an¬
cient wri¬
ters.
219
Written in
the Syro-
Chaldaic
language.
220
Date of it.
Percy’s
Key to the
New Te~
Jlament.
221
Defign of
k to prove
to the Jews
the truth
of the Chri-
ftian reli¬
gion and
its fuperi-
prity to the
law of
Motks;
SCR [ 4+ ] SCR
ferior in thefe qualities to the Eplitle to the Hebrews.
3. It is obje&ed, that in Heb. ii. 3. the writer of this
Epitlle joins hirafelf with thofe who had received the
gofpel from Chrilt’s a pottles. Now Paul had it from
Chrill himfelf. But Paul often appeals to the teftimony
of the apoitles in fupport of thofe truths which he had
received from Revelation. We may infiance 1 Cor. xv.
5, 6, 7, 8. j 2. Tim. ii. 2.
This Epittle is not quoted till the end of the feccnd
century, and even then does not feem to have been uni-
verfally received. This filence might be owing to the
Hebrews themfelves, who fuppofing this letter had no
relation to the Gentiles, might be at pains to diii'ufe co¬
pies of it. The authors, however, on whofe teftimony
we receive it as authentic, are entitled to credit j for
they lived fo near the age of the apoftles, that they
were in no danger of being impofed on ; and from the
numerous lift of books which they rejedfed as fpurious,
we are affured that they were very careful to guard
againft impofition. It is often quoted as Paul’s by Cle¬
mens Alexandrinus, about the year 194. It is recei¬
ved and quoted as Paul’s by Origen, about 230 ; by
Dionyfius biftiop of Alexandria in 247 } and by a nu¬
merous lift of fucceeding writers.
The Epiftle to the Hebrews was originally written
in Hebrew, or rather Syro-Chaldaic ; a fa£t which we
believe on the teftimony of Clemens Alexandrinus, Je¬
rome, and Euiebius. To this it has been objected,
that as thefe writers have not referred to any authority,
we ought to confider what they fay on this fubjedl mere¬
ly as an opinion. But as they Rate no reafons for
adopting this opinion, but only mention as a fadt that
Paul wrote to the Hebrervs in ,their native language,
we muff allow that it is their teftimony which they
produce, and not their opinion. Eufebius informs us,
that fume fuppofed Luke the Evangelift, and others
Clemens Romanus, to have been the tranflator.
According to the opinion of ancient writers, particu¬
larly Clemens Alexandrinus, Jerome, and Euthalius, this
Epiftle' was addreffed to the Jews in Paleftine.—The
fcope of the Epiftle confirms this opinion.
Having now given fufficient evidence that this E-
piftle was written by Paul, the time when it was writ¬
ten may be eafily determined : For the falutation from
the faints of Italy (chap. iv. 24.), together with the
apoftle’s promife to fee the Hebrews (ver. 23.), plain¬
ly intimate, that his confinement was then either ended
or on the eve of being ended. It muft therefore have
been written foon after the Epiftles to the Coloftians,
Ephefians, and Philemon, and not long before Paul left
Italy, that is, in the year 61 or 62.
As the zealous defenders of the Mofaic law would
naturally infill on the divine authority of Mofes, on the
majefty and glory attending its promulgation by the
miniftry of angels, and the great privileges it afforded
thofe who*adhered to it; the apoftle ftiows,
I. That in all thefe feveral articles Chriftianity had
an infinite fuperiority to the law.
This topic he purfues from chap. 5. to xi. wdierein
he reminds the believing Hebrews of the extraordinary
favour Ihown them by God, in fending them a revela¬
tion by his own fon, whofe glory was far fuperior to
that of angels (chap. i. throughout) ; very naturally
inferring from hence the danger of defpifing Chrift on
account of his humilitation, which, in perfect confift-
ence with his dominion over the world to come, was Scripture,
voluntarily fubmitted to by him for wife and important
reafons; particularly to deliver us from the fear of
death, and to encourage the freedom of our accefs to
God (chap. ii. throughout). With the fame view he
magnifies Chrift as fuperior to Mofes, their great legif-
lalor; and from the puniihment infiifted on thofe who
rebelled againft the authority of Mofes, infers the dan¬
ger of contemning the promifes of the gofpel (chap.
hi* 2 13.). And as it was an eafy tranfition to call to
mind on this occafion that reft in Canaan to which the
authority invefted in Mofes was intended to lead them ;
the apoitle hence cautions them againft unbelief, as
what would prevent their entering into a fuperior ftate
of reft to what the Jews ever enjoyed (^chap. iii. 14.
iv. 11.). This caution is ilill farther enforced by aw¬
ful views of God’s omnifcience, and a lively reprelenta-
tion of the high-priefthood of Chrift (chap. iv. to the
end ; and chap. v. throughout). In the next place, he
intimates the very hopelefs fituation of thofe who apo-
ftatife from Chriftianity (chap. vi. 1—9.) 5 and then,
for the comfort and confirmation of fincere believers,
difplays to them the goodnefs of God, and his faithful
adherence to his holy engagements ; the performance of
which is fealed by the entrance of Chrift into heaven as
our forerunner (chap. vi. 9. to the end). Sail far¬
ther to illuftrate the charadter of our Lord, he enters
into a parallel between him and Melchizedec as to
their title and defcent •, and, from inftances wherein the
priefthood of Melchizedec excelled the Levitical, infers,
that the glory of the priefthood of Chrift furpaffed that
under the law (chap. vii. 1—17). From thefe premifes
the apoftle argues, that the Aaronical priefthood was
not only excelled, but confummated by that of Chrift,
to which it was only introdudlory and iubfervient ; and
of courfe, that the obligation of the law was henceforth
diffolved (chap. vii. 18. to the end). Then recapitu¬
lating what he had already demonftrated concerning the
fuperior dignity of Chrift’s priefthood, he thence illu-
ftrates the diftinguiftied excellence of the new cove¬
nant, as not only foretold by Jeremiah, but evidently
enriched with much better promifes than the old (ch.
viii. throughout) : Explaining farther the dodlrine of
the priefthood and interceflion of Chrift, by comparing
it with what the Jewifh high-priefts did on the great
day of atonement (chap. ix. 1 —14). Afterwards he
enlarges on the neceftity of (bedding Chrift’s blood, and
the (ufficiency of the atonement made by it (chap. ix.
15. to the end) j and proves that the legal ceremonies
could not by any means purify the confcience : whence
he infers the infufficiency of the Mofaic law, and the
neceftity of looking beyond it (chap. x. 1—15.). He
then urges the Hebrews to improve the privileges which
fuch an high-prieft and covenant conferred on them, to
the purpofes of approaching God with confidence, to
a conftant attendance on his-worfhip, and moft benevo¬
lent regards to each other (chap. x. 15—25.).
The apoftle having thus obviated the infinuations and
objedftions of the Jews, for the fatisfadlion and eftablifti-
ment of the believing Hebrew’s, proceeds, 222
If. To prepare and fortify their minds againft the and to anr-
ftorm of perfecution which in part had already befallen nme them
them, which was likely to continue and be often renew-
ed, he reminds them of thofe extremities they had endu- with forti-
red, and of the fatal effefts which would attend theirtude.
apoftacy
SCR [ 45 ] SCR
Scripture, apoftacy (chap. x. 26. to the end) ; calling to their
remembrance the eminent examples of faith and forti¬
tude exhibited by holy men, and recorded in the Old
Teftament (chap. xi. I—29.). He concludes his dif-
courfe with glancing at many other illuftrious worthies 5
and, belides thole recorded in Scripture, refers to the
cafe of feveral who fuffered under the perfecution of An-
123
The feven
Catholic
epiftles.
Macknight
on the E-
fijiles.
224
Epiftlf of
James the
Lefs.
tiochus Epiphanes (2 Maccab. chap. viii. &c. chap. xi.
30. xii. 2.).
Having thus finifhed the argumentative part of the
Epiftle, the apoftle proceeds to a general application j
in which he exhorts the Hebrew Chriftians to patience,
peace, and holinefs (chap. xii. 3—14.) j cautions them
againft fecular views and fenfual gratifications, by lay¬
ing before them the incomparable excellence of the
bledings introduced by the gofpel, which even the Jew-
ifh economy, glorious and magnificent as it was, did by
no means equal; exhorts them to brotherly affection,
purity, compaffion, dependence on the divine care, ited-
faltnefs in the profedion of truth, a life of thankfulnefs
to God, and benevolence to man : and concludes the
whole with recommending their pious minifters to their
particular regard, intreating their prayers, faluting and
granting them his ufual benedidlion.
The feven following Epiftles, one of James, two of
Peter, three of John, and one of Jude, have been di-
ftinguiftied by the appellation of catholic or general epif¬
tles, becaufe moft: of them are infcribed, not to parti¬
cular churches or perfons, but to the body of Jewiftr
or Gentile converts over the world. The authenticity
of fome of thefe has been frequently queftioned, viz.
the Epiftle of James, the fecond of Peter, the Epiftle of
Jude, and the fecond and third of John. The ancient
Chriftians were very cautious in admitting any books
into their canon whofe authenticity they had any reafon
to fufpecf. They rejected all the writings forged by
heretics in the name of the apoftles, and certainly, there¬
fore, would not receive any without firft fubjecling them
to a fevere fcrutiny. Now, though thefe five ^piftles
were not immediately acknowledged as the writings of
the apoftles, this only Ihows that the perfons who
doubted bad not received complete and inconteftable
evidence of their authenticity. But as they were af¬
terwards univerfally received, we have every reafon to
conclude, that upon a ftrict examination they were
found to be the genuine productions of the apoftles.
The truth is, fo good an opportunity had the ancient
Chriftians of examining this matter, fo careful were they
to guard againft impofition, and fo well founded was
their judgement concerning the books of the New Tefta¬
ment, that, as Dr Lardner obferves, no writing which
they pronounced genuine has yet been proved fpurious,
nor have we at this day the leaft reafon to believe any
book genuine which they rejefted.
That the Epiftle of James was written in the apofto-
lical age is proved by the quotations of ancient authors.
Clemens Romanus and Ignatius feem to have made re¬
ferences to it. Origen quotes it once or twice.—There
are feveral reafons why it was not more generally quoted
by the firft Chriftian writers. Being written to cor-
reft the errors and vices which prevailed among the Jews,
the Gentiles might think it of lefs importance to them,
and therefore take no pains to procure copies of it. As
the author was ibmetimes denominated James the Juft,
and often called bifhop of Jerufalem, it might be doubt¬
ed whether he was one of the apoftles. But its au- Scriptueai
thenticity does not feem to have been fufpefted on ac-
count of the doctrines which it contains. In modern
times, indeed, Luther called it a ftrawy epiftle {cpiftola
Jlraminca), and excluded it from the facred writings, on
account of its apparent oppofition to the apoftle Paul
concerning juftification by faith.
This Epiftle could not be written by James the Elder,
the fon of Zebedee, and brother of John, who was be¬
headed by Herod in the year 44, for it contains paffages
which refer to a later period. It muft, therefore, have
been the compofition of James the Lefs, the fon of
Alpheus, who was called the Lord's brother, becaufe he
was the fon of Mary, the fifter of our Lord’s mother. 223
As to the date of this Epiftle, Lardner fixes it in the The date
year 61 or 62.
James the Lefs ftatedly refided at Jerufalem, whence
he hath been ftyled by fome ancient fathers bifhop of
that city, though without fufficient foundation. Now Doddrid-
James being one of the apoftles of the circumcifion,<ff ■f ic™uly
while he confined his perfonal labours to the inhabitants 'i J
of Judea, it was very natural for him to endeavour by
his writings to extend his fervices to the Jewifli Chrif¬
tians who were difperfed abroad in more diftant re- 226
gions. For this purpofe, there are two points which and defign.
the apoftle feems to have principally aimed at, though0
he hath not purfued them in an orderly and logical me¬
thod, but in the free epiftolary manner, handling them
jointly or diftinftly as occafions naturally offered. And
thefe were, “ to correct thole errors both in dodlrine
and pradfice into which the Jewifh Chriilians had fallen,
which might otherwife have produced fatal coniequen-
ces j and then to eftablifh the faith and animate the hope
of fincere believers, both under their prefent and their
approaching fufferings.”
The opinions which he is moft anxious to refute are
thefe, that God is the author of fin, (cb. i. 13.) ; that
the belief of the dodfrines of the gofpel was fufficient
to procure the favour of God for them, however defi¬
cient they w^ere in good works, (ch. ii.). He difiuades
the Jews from afpiring to the office of teachers in the
third chapter, becaufe their prejudices in favour of the
law7 of Mofes might induce them to pervert the dodtrines
of the gofpel. He therefore guards them againft the
fins of the tongue, by reprefenting their pernicious ef-
fedts ; and as they thought themfelves wife and intelli¬
gent, and were ambitious of becoming teachers, he ad-
vifes them to make good their pretenfions, by {bowing
themfelves poffeffed of that wildom which is from above,
(ch. iii.).
The deftrudfion of Jerufalem was now approaching j
the Jews were fplit into fadlions, and often fiaughtered
one another y the apoftle, therefore, in the fourth chap¬
ter, admonifhes them to purify themfelves fx-om thofe
vices which produced tumults and bloodfhed. To roufe
them to repentance, he foretels the miferies that were
coming upon them. Laftly, He checks an irreligious
fnirit that feems to have prevailed, and concludes the
Epiftle with feveral exhortatioits.
The authenticity of the firft Epiftle of Peter has Firft E-
never been denied. It is referred to by Clemens pftfte of
Romanus, by Polycarp, and is quoted by Papias, Ire- 0eter-
nseus, Clemens Alexandrinus, and Tertullian. . It is
addreffed to the ftrangers fcattered through Pontus, &c.
who are evidently Chriftians in general, as appears from
SCR
[ 46 ]
s c n
228
The date
329
and defign
of it.
Scripture, chap, ii. 10. “ In time part they were not a people,
<—-y—l}Ut are now t]le pe0ple 0f God.” From Peters fend¬
ing the ialutation of the church at Babylon to the
Chriftians in Pontus, &c. it is generally believed that
he wrote it in Babylon. There was a Babylon in
Egypt and another in Affyria. It could not be the
former, for it was an obfcure place, which feems to
have had no church for the firft four centuries. We
have no authority to affirm that Peter ever was in Af-
fyria. The molt probable opinion is that of Grotius,
Whitby, Lardner, as well as of Eufebius, Jerome, and
others, that by Babylon Peter figuratively means Rome.
Lardner dates it in 63 or 64, or at the lateft 65.
St Peter’s chief defign is to confirm the dodlrine of
St Paul, which the falfe teachers pretended he was op-
pofing 5 and to affure the profelytes that they flood in
the true grace of God, (ch. v. 12.). With this view he
calls them eleft *, and mentions, that they had been
declared fuch by the effufion of the Holy Ghofl upon
them, (ch. i. 1, 2.). He affures them that they were
regenerate without circumcifion, merely through the
gofpel and refurredtion of Chrift, (ver. 3, 4, 21—25.) $
and that their fufferings were no argument of their be¬
ing under the difpleafure of God, as the Jews imagined,
(ver. 6—12.). He recommends it to them to hope
for grace to the end, (ver. 13.). He teftifies, that
they were not redeemed by the Pafchal lamb, but
through Chrift, whom God had preordained for this
purpofe before the foundation of the wmrld, (ver.
l8—20.).
The fecond Epiftle of Peter is not mentioned by any
ancient writer extant till the fourth century, from which
Peter. The |Jeen received by all Chriftians except the Sy-
230
Second E-
piftle of
authentici¬
ty of it
proved
•231
from inter¬
nal evi¬
dence.
nans. Jerome acquaints us, that its authenticity was
difpuied, on account of a remarkable difference between
the ftyle of it and the former Epiftle. But this re¬
markable difference in ftyle is confined to the 2d chapter
of the 2d Epiftle. No objection, however, can be
drawn from this circumftance ; for the fubjedl of that
chapter is different from the reft of Peter’s writings,
and nothing is fo well known than that different fubjedts
fuggeft difterent ftyles. Peter, in defcribing the cha-
rndlei- of feme flagitious impoftors, feels an indignation
which he cannot fupprefs : it breaks out, therefore, in
the bold and animated figures of an oriental xvriter.
Such a diverfity of ftyle is not uncommon in the beft
writers, efpecially when warmed with their fubjedl.
This objedlion being i-emoved, wTe contend that this
Epiftle was written by Peter, from the infeription, Si¬
mon Peter, a fervant and an apojlle of Jefus Chrift. It
appears from chap. i. 16, 17, 18, that the writer w-as
one of the difciples who faw the transfiguration of our
Saviour. Since it has never been aferibed to James or
John, it muft therefore have been Peter. It is evident,
from chap. iii. 1. that the author had written an Epiftle
before to the fame perfons, which is another circum¬
ftance that proves Peter to be the author.
It is acknowledged, however, that all this evidence is
merely internal •, for w^effiave not been able to find any
external evidence upon the fubjedl. If, therefore, the
credit which we give to any faff is to be in proportion
to the degree of evidence with which it is accompanied,
we {hall allow more authority due to the gofpels than
to the epiftles; more to thofe epiftles which have been
generally acknowledged than to thofe which have been
controverted : and therefore no do&rine of Chriftianity Scripture-
ought to be founded folely upon them. It may alfo be —v~—'
added, that perhaps the beft way of determining what
are the effential doctrines of Chriftianity would be to
examine what are the doblrines which occur ofteneft
in the gofpels ; for the gofpels are the plaincft parts of
the New Teftament; and their authenticity is moft:
completely proved. They are therefore belt fitted for
common readers. Nor will it be denied, we prefame,
that our Saviour taught all the dobtrines of the Chrif-
tian religion himfelf; that he repeated them on different
occafions, and inculcated them with an earneftnefs pro¬
portionable to their importance. The Epiftles are to be
confidercd as a commentary on the effential dobtrines of
the gofpel, adapted to the fili ation and circumftances of
particular churches, and perhaps fometimes explaining
doblrines of inferior importance. 1. The effential doc¬
trines are therefore firft to be fought for in the gofpels,
and to be determined by the number of times they occur.
2. They are to be fought for, in the next place, in the un¬
controverted Epiftles, in the fame manner. 3. No effential
dobirine ought to be founded on a fingle paffage, nor on
the authority of a controverted Epiftle.
That Peter was old, and near his end, when he wrote
this Epiftle, may be inferred from chap. i. 14. “ Know¬
ing that fhortly I muft put off this tabernacle, even as
our Lord Jefus has fhewn me.” Lardner thinks it was
written foon after the former. Others, perhaps with
more accuracy, date it in 67.
The general defign of this Epiftle is, to confirm the De{(g5nJ0f
doblrines and inftrubtions delivered in the former } “ to it.
excite the Chriftian converts to adorn, and ftedfaftly ad¬
here to their holy religion, as a religion proceeding
from God, notwkhftanding the artifices of falfe teachers,
whofe charafter is at large deferibed •, or the perfecution
of their bitter and inveterate enemies.”
The firft Epiftle of John is aferibed by the unanimous
fuffrage of the ancients to thebeloved difciple of ourpiftleof
Lord. It is referred to by Polycarp, is quoted by Pa--Tohn. Its
pias, by Irerteus, and was received as genuine by Cle-t^en”'
mens Alexandrinus, by Dionyfius of Alexandria, by Cy- ^je>an
prian, by Origen, and Eufebius. There is fuch a refem-
blance between the ftyle and fentiments of this Epiftla
and thofe of the gofpel according to John, as to afford
the higheft degree of internal evidence that they are the
compofilion of the fame author. In the ftyle of this
apoftle there is a remarkable peculiarity, and efpecially
in this Epiftle. His fentences, confidered feparately, are
exceeding clear and intelligible ; but when wefearch for
their conneblion, w^e frequently meet with greater dif¬
ficulties than wje do even in the Epiftles of St Paul.
The principal fignature and charableriftic of his manner
is an artlefs and amiable fimnlicity, and a Angular mo-
defty and candour, in conjurbtion with a wonderful fub-
limity of fentiment. His conceptions are apparently de¬
livered t© us in the order in which they arofe to his own
mind, and are not the produbt of artificial reafoning or
laboured inveftigation.
It is impoffible to fix with any precifion the date of
this Epiftle, nor can we determine to what perfons it
was addreffed.
The leading defign of the apoftle is to ffiow’ the
fufficiency of faith, and the external profeffion of reli-it^ 'S11 05
gion, feparate from morality ; to guard the Chriftians
to whom he writes againft the delufive arts of the cor¬
rupters
S C R
[ 47 ]
SCR
Sferipture. rupters of Chriflianity, whom he calls Antichrift j and
~~~~v to inculcate univerfal benevolence. His admonitions
concerning the neceflity of good morals, and the inef¬
ficacy of external profeffions, are featured over the
Epidle, but are molt frequent in the id, 2d, and 3d
chapters. The enemies or corrupters of Chriftianity,
againft whom he contends, feem to have denied that
Jefus was the Meffiah, the Son of God (chap. ii. 22.
v. 1.), and had addually come into the world in a human
form, (chap. iv. 2, 3.). The earnellnefs and frequency
with which this apotlle recommends the duty of bene¬
volence is remarkable. He makes it the diftinguiihing
charafteridic of the difciples of Jefus, the only fure
pledge of our love to God, and the only affurance of
eternal life, (chap. iii. 34, 15.). Benevolence wTa$ his
favourite theme, which he affectionately preffed upon
other®, and condantly praCtifed himfelf. It was confpi-
cuous in his conduct to his great Mafter, and in the reci
procal affeCtion which it infpired in his facred bread, fie
continued to recommend it in his lad words. When his
extreme age and infirmities had fo waded his drength that
he was incapable to exercife the duties of his office, the
venerable old man, anxious to exert in the fervice of his
Mader the little drength which dill remained, caufed
himfelf to be carried to church, and, in the midd of the
congregation, he repeated thefe words, “ Little children,
love one another.”
It has been obferved by Dr Mill that the fecond and
third Epidles of John are fo ffiort, and referable the fird
fo much in fentiment and dyle, that it is not worth
while to contend about them. The fecond Epidle con-
fids only of 13 verfes; and of thefe eight may be found
in the id Epittle, in which the fenfe or language is pre-
cifely the fame.
The fecond Epidle is quoted by Irenseus, and was
received by Clemens Alexandrinus. Both were ad¬
mitted by Athanafius, by Cyril of Jerufalem, and by
Jerome. The fecond is addreffed to a woman of di-
dinflion whofe name is by fome fuppofed to be Cyrta
(iaking itvyet for a proper name), by others Eclecla. The
third is infevibed to Gains, or Gains according to the
Latin orthography, who, in the opinion of Lardner, was
an eminent Cbridian, that lived in fome city of Alia
not far from Epbefus, where St John chiefly redded
after his leaving Judea. The time of writing thefe
two Epiftles cannot be determined with any certainty.
They are fo fliort that an analyfis of them is not necef-
fary.
The Epiflle of Jude is cited by no ancient Chriflian
writer extant before Clemens Alexandrinus about the
year 194; but this author has tranferibed eight or ten
verfes in his Stromata and Pedagogue. It is quoted
once by Tertullian about the year 200 ; by Oiigen
frequently about 230. It was not however received
by many of the ancient Chriftians, on account of a
fuppofed quotation from a book of Enoch. But it is
rot certain that Jude quotes any book. He only fays
that Enoch prophefied, faying, The Lord cometh with
ten thoufand of his faints. Thefe might be words of
*35 ,
Second and
third E-
pitlles of
John.
236
Epiftle of
Jude. Its
authenti¬
city
a prophecy preferved by tradition, and inferted occafion- Scripture,
ally in different writings. Nor is there any evidence
that there was fuch a book as Enoch’s prophecies in the
time of Jude, though a book of that name was ex¬
tant in the fecond and third centuries. As to the date
of this Epiftle nothing beyond conje£lure can be pro-
duC£?* . . . . 237
ine defign of it is, by deferibing the charafler of theanddefign.
falfe teachers, and the punifliments to which they were
liable, to caution Chriflians againft liftening to their fug-
geftions, and being thereby perverted from the faith and
purity of the gofpel.
The Apocalypfe or Revelation has not always been The Apo-
unanimoufly received as the genuine produftion of thetaI-vPf'\ Its
apoftle John. Its authenticity is proved, however, by
the teftimony of many refpe&able authors of the firitvU.^
centuiies. It is referred to by the martyrs of Lyons :
it was admitted by Juftin Martyr as the” work of the
apoftle John. It is often quoted by Irenteus, by The-
ophilus biihop of Antioch, by Clement of Alexandria,
by Tertullian, by Origen, and by Cyprian of Carthage.
It was alfo received by heretics, by Novatus and his fol¬
lowers, by theDonatifts, and by the Arians. For the fnft
two centuries no part of the New Teftament was more
univerfally acknowledged, or mentioned with higher re-
fpect. But a difpute having arifen about the millennium,
Caius with fome others, about the year 212, to end the
controverfy as fpeedily and effectually as poffible, ventu¬
red to deny the authority of the book which had given
occafion to it. 2.,s)
The book of Revelation, as we learn from Rev. i. 9. The dale
was written in the ifle of Patmos. According to theofit“
general teftimony of ancient authors, John was baniftied
into Patmos in the reign of Domitian, and reftored by
his fucceffor Nerva. But the book could not be pu-
blifhed till after John’s releafe, when he returned to E-
phefus. As Domitian died in 96, and his perfecution
did not commence till near the end of his reign, the Re¬
velation might therefore be publithed in 96 or 97.
Here we thould conclude j but as the curious reader may Percy's
defire to be informed how the prediclions revealed in this Keyto tha
book of St John have ufually been interpreted and ap-1 Tf~
plied, we fliall confidently with our fubjecl fubjoin aJ amai ‘
key to the prophecies contained in the Revelation. This is
extracted from the learned diflertations of Dr Newton,
biffiop of Bnftol (l) : to which the reader is referred for
a more full illuftration of the feveral parts, as the concife-
nefs of our plan only admits a fliort analyfis or abridg¬
ment of them. 0
Nothing of a prophetical nature occurs in the firfl three Dr I\ew-
chapters, except, 1. What is faid concerning the church ton’se*'
of Ephefus, that her “ candleftick fliall be removed out °f
of its place,” which is now verified, not only in this, but pe des’
in all the other Afiatic churches which exifted at that which have
time; the light of the gofpel having been taken frombe£nal-
them, not only by their herefies and divifions from with-readtyr^',
in,but by the arms of the Saracens from without: And,CJWi>U S
2. Concerning the church of Smyrna, that (lie fliall
“ have tribulation ten daysthat is, in prophetic lan¬
guage,
'"•orld °n tlie pro^ec^es which have remarkably been fulfilled, and at this time are fulfilling
, in the
SCR [48
Scripture guage, “ ten years j” referring to tire perfecuticm of
Dioclefian, which alone of all the general peri’ecutions
laited fo long.
The next five chapters relate to the opening of the
Seven Seals ; and by thel'e feals are intimated fo many
different periods of the prophecy. Six of thefe feals are
opened in the fixth and feventh chapters.
The JirJl feal or period is memorable for conquefts.
It commences with Vefpafian, and terminates in Nerva j
and during this time Judea was fubjugated. The yi?-
cond feal is noted for war and daughter. It commences
with Trajan, and continues through his reign, and that
of his fucceffors. in this period, the Jews were entire¬
ly routed and difperfed ; and great was the daughter
and devaftation occafioned by the contending parties.
The third feal is charafterifed by a rigorous execution
of judice, and an abundant provifion of corn, wine, and
oil. It commences with Septimius Severus. He and
Alexander Severus were juft and feveie emperors, and
at the fame time highly celebrated for the regard
they paid to the felicity of their people, by procu¬
ring them plenty of every thing, and particularly
corn, wine, and oil. This period lafted during the
reigns of the Septimian family. The fourth feal is dif-
tinguifhed by a concurrence of evils, fuch as war, fa¬
mine, peftilence, and wild beafts ; by all which the Ro¬
man empire was remarkably infefted from the reign of
Maximin to that of Dioclefian. The fifth feal begins
at Dioclefian, and is fignalized by the great perfecution,
from whence arofe that memorable era, the Era of
Martyrs. With Conftantine begins the fixth feal, a
period of revolutions, pictured forth by great commo¬
tions in earth and in heaven, alluding to the fubverfion
of Paganifm and the eftablilhment of Chriftianity. This
period lafted from the reign of Conftantine the Great
to that of Theodofius the firft. The feventh feal includes
under it the remaining parts of the prophecy, and com¬
prehends feven periods diftinguilhed by the founding of
feven trumpets.
As the feals foretold the ftate of the Roman empire
before and till it became Chriftian, fo the trumpets fore-
ftiow the fate of it afterwards ; each trumpet being an
alarm to one nation or other, roufing them up to over¬
throw that empire.
Four of thefe trumpets are founded in the eighth
chapter.
At the founding of the firft, Alaric and his Goths
invade the Roman empire, befiege Rome twice, and fet
it on fire in feveral places. At the founding of the fe-
cond, Attila and his Huns wafte the Roman provinces,
and compel the eaftern emperor Theodofius the fecond,
and the weftern emperor Valentinian the third, to fub-
mit to fhameful terms. At the founding of the third,
Genferic and his Vandals arrive from Africa 5 fpoil and
plunder Rome, and fet fail again with immenfe wealth
and innumerable captives. At the founding of the
fourth, Odoacer and the Heruli put an end to the very
name of the weftern empire ; Theodoric founds the
kingdom of the Oftrogoths in Italy ■, and at laft Italy
becomes a province of the eaftern empire, Rome being
governed by a duke under the exarch of Ravenna. As
the foregoing trumpets relate chiefly to the downfal of
the weftern empire, fo do the following to that of the
eaftern. They are founded in the ninth, tenth, and
part of the eleventh chapters. At the founding of the
] SCR
fifth trumpet, Mahomet, that blazing ftar, appears, 0- Scripture.
pens the bottomlels pit, and with his locufts the Arabi-
ans darkens the fun and air. And at the founding of the
fixth, a period not yet finiftied, the four angels, that is,
the four fultans, or leaders of the Turks and Othmans,
are loofed from the river Euphrates. The Greek or
Eaftern empire was cruelly “ hurt and tormented” un¬
der the fifth trumpet •, but under the fixth, was “ fiain,”
and utterly deftroyed.
The Latin or Weftern Church not being reclaimed
by the ruin of the Greek or Eaftern, but itill perfifting
in their idolatry and wickednefs j at the beginning of the
tenth chapter, and under the found of this fixth trumpet,
is introduced a vifion preparative to the prophecies re-
fpe£Hng the Weftern Church, wherein an angel is repre-
fented, having in his hand a little book, or codicil, de-
feribing the calamities that fhould overtake that church.
The meafuring of the temple ftiows, that during all this
period there will be fome true Chriftians, who will con-
form themfelves to the rule of God’s word, even whilft
the outer court, that is, the external and more extenfive
part of this temple or church, is trodden under foot by
Gentiles, i. e. fuch Chriftians as, in their idolatrous
worihip and perfecuting pradf ice, referable and outdo the
Gentiles themfelves. Yet againft thefe corrupters of re¬
ligion there will always be fome true witneffes to proteft,
who, however they may be overborne at times, and in
appearance reduced to death, yet will arife again from
time to time, till at laft; they triumph and glorioufly a-
feend. The eleventh chapter concludes witn the found¬
ing of the feventh trumpet.
In the twelfth chapter, by the woman bearing a man-
child is to be underftood the Chriftian church j by the
great red dragon, the heathen Roman empire ; by the
man-child whom the woman bore, Conftantine the
Great} and by the war in heaven, the contefts between
the Chriftian and Heathen religions.
In the thirteenth chapter, by the bead with feven
heads and ten horns, unto whom the dragon gave his
power, feat, and great authority, is to be underftood,
not Pagan but Chriftian, not imperial but papal Rome j
in fubmitting to whole religion, the world did in efteft
fubmit again to the religion of the dragon.. The ten¬
horned beaft therefore reprefents the Romifti church
and ftate in general : but the beaft with two horns like
a lamb is the Roman clergy j and that image of the
ten-horned beaft, which the two-horned beaft caufed to
be made, and infpired with life, is the. pope 5 whofe
number is 666, according to the numerical powers of
the letters conftituting the Roman name Auhvei, Latinus^
or its equivalent in Hebrew, JV'D-Ti Romitft.
A
A
T
E
1
N
O
2
3°
I
300
5
lO
50
70
200
666
200
6 ■>
40 »
10 s
1 o »
400 n
666
Chapter xiv. By the lamb on Mount Sion is meant
Jefus ; by the hundred forty ind four thoufan i, ins
church and iui.o>,ers j by the angel preaching the ever-
lafting-
SCR [ 49 ] S C U
Scripture lafting gofpel, the firft principal effort made towards a
II reformation by that public oppofition formed againft the
Scruple. worftjjp 0f faints and images by emperors and bifhops in
the eighth and ninth centuries j by the angel crying,
“ • Babylon is fallen,” the Waldenfes and Albigenfes,
who pronounced the church of Rome to be the A-
pocalyptic Babylon, and denounced her deftruflion ;
and by the third angel Martin Luther and his fellow
reformers, who protefled againft all the corruptions of
the church of Rome, as deftruftive to falvation. For
an account of the doftrines and precepts contained in
the Scriptures, fee Theology. For proofs of their
divine origin, fee Religion, Prophecy, and Mira¬
cles.
SCRIVENER, one who draws contradfts, or wdiofe
bufinefs it is to place money at intereft. If a fcrivener
be entrufted with a bond, he may receive the intereft j
and if he fail, the obligee fhall bear the lofs : and fo
it is if he receive the principal and deliver up the bond;
for being entrufted with the fecurity itfelf, it muft be
prefumed that he is trufted with power to receive inte¬
reft or principal j and the giving up the bond on pay¬
ment of the money (hall be a difcharge thereof. But
if a fcrivener {hall be entrufted with a mortgage-deed,
he hath only authority to receive the intereft, not the
principal j the giving up the deed in this cafe not being
fufficient to reftore the eftate, but there muft be a re¬
conveyance, &c. It is held, where a fcrivener puts out
his client’s money on a bad fecurity, which upon in¬
quiry might have been ealily found fo, yet he cannot in
equity be charged to anfwer for the money ; for it is
here faid, no one would venture to put out money of
another upon a fecurity, if he were obliged to warrant
and make it good in cafe a lofs ftiould happen, without
any fraud in him.
SCROBICULUS cordis, the fame as Anticar-
SIUM.
SCROFANELLO, in Ichthyology, a name by
which fome have called a fmall fi(h of the Mediterra¬
nean, more ufually known by the name of the fcor-
pcena.
SCROLL, in Heraldry. See that article, chap. iv.
feft. 9. When the motto relates to the creft, the fcroll
is properly placed above the achievement; otherwife it
(hould be annexed to the efcutcheon. Thofe of the
order of knighthood are generally placed round (hields.
SCROPHULA, the king’s evil. See Medicine,
N° 349-
SCROPHQLARIA, Figwort, a genus of plants
belonging to the didynamia clafs, and in the natural
method ranking under the 40th order, Perfonatcv. See
Botany Index.
SCROTUM. See Anatomy, N° 220.
SCRUPLE, Scrupulus, or Scrupulum, the leaft
of the weights ufed by the ancients, which amongft
the Romans was the 24th part of an ounce, or the 3d
part of a dram. The fcruple is ftili a weight among
us, containing the 3d part of a dram, or 20 grains.
Among goldfmiths it is 24 grains.
SCRUPLE, in Chaldean Chronology, is TsVo Part °f
an hour, called by the Hebrews helakin. Thefe fcruples
are much ufed by the Jews, Arabs, and other eaftern
people, in computations of time.
Scruples of half Duration, an arch of the moon’s
Vol. XIX. Part I.
orbit, which the moon’s centre deferibes ftom the be¬
ginning of an eclipfe to its middle.
SCRUPLES of Immerjion or Incidence, an arch of the
moon’s orbit, which her centre deferibes from the be¬
ginning of the eclipfe to the time when its centre falls
into the fliadow.
SCRUPLES of Emerjton, an arch of the moon’s orbit,
which her centre deferibes in the time from the firft
emerfion of the moon’s limb to the end of the eclipfe.
SCRUTINY, (Scrutinium), in the primitive church,
an examination or probation pradtifed in the lalt week
of Lent, on the catechumens, who were to receive bap-
tifm on the Eafter-day. The ferutiny was performed
with a great many ceremonies, Exorcifms and prayers
were made over the heads of the catechumens j and on
Palm Sunday, the Lord’s Prayer and Creed were given
them, which they were afterwards made to rehearfe.
This cuftom was more in ufe in the church of Rome
than anywhere elfe; though it appears, by fome miffals,
to have been likewife ufed, though much later, in the
Gallican church. It is fuppofed to have ceafed about
the year 860. Some traces of this practice ftili remain
at Vienne, in Dauphine, and at Liege.
Scrutiny, is alio ufed, in the Canon Law, for a ticket
or little paper billet, wherein at eledtions the electors
write their votes privately, fo as it may not be known
for whom they vote. Among us the term ferutiny is
chiefly ufed for a ftridt perufal and examination of the
feveral votes haftily taken at an eledtion j in order to
find out any irregularities committed therein, by un¬
qualified voters, &c.
SCRUTORE, or Scrutoir (from the French ef-
critoire), a kind of cabinet, with a door or lid opening
downwards, for conveniency of writing on, See.
SCRY, in falconry, denotes a large flock of fowl.
SCUDDING, the movement by which a ftiip is car¬
ried precipitately before a tempeft. As a Ihip flies with
amazing rapidity through the water whenever this ex¬
pedient is put in pradtice, it is never attempted in a
contrary wind, unlefs when her condition renders her
incapable of fuftaining the mutual effort of the wind
and waves any longer on her fide, without being
expofed to the moft imminent danger of being over-
fet.
A (hip either feuds with a fail extended on her fore-
maft, or, if the ftorm is exceflive, without any fail :
which, in the fea-phrafe, is called feudding under bare
poles. In {loops and Ichooners, and other fmall veffels^
the fail employed for this purpofe is called the fquare
fail. In large {hips, it is either the forefail at large,
reefed, or with its goofe-wings extended, according
to the degree of the tempeft ; or it is the fore-top fail,
clofe reefed, and lowered on the cap ; which laft is
particularly ufed when the fea runs fo high as to becalm
the forefail occafionally, a circumftance which expofes
the fliip to the danger of broaching to. The principal
hazards incident to feudding are generally, a pooping
fea 5 the difficulty of fleering, which expofes the veffel
perpetually to the rifk of broaching to; and the want of
fufficient fea-room. A fea ftriking the fliip violently on
the ftern may dafli it inwards, by which ffie muft inevi¬
tably founder. In broaching to (that is, inclining fud-
denly to windward), fire is threatened with being imme¬
diately overturned 5 and, for want of fea-room, Ihe is en-
G dangered
Scruple
I!
Scudding.
S C U [ s° ] S C U
cwdding, dangered by fhipwreck on a lee-fliore, a circumftance flioes worn by Haves of both fexcs. Thefe (hoes were Scu’p-^e?d
Scuiponea;. t00 jreadfai to require explanation. only blocks of wood made hollow, like the French fa-v-*
SCULPONE/E, among the Romans, a kind of bots.
S C U I, P T U 11 E,
Definition
of fculp-
ture.
Origin of
it,
# Apucl
Syncellum,
P- 37^
f Hijl. Nat
Jib. vii. cap
5«-
not folely
from idola¬
try;
IS the art of carving wood or hewing ftone into ima¬
ges. It is an art of the moll remote antiquity,
being praftifed, as there is reafon to believe, before the
general deluge. We are induced to affign to it this
early origin, by confidering the expedients by which,
in the firit llages of fociety, men have everywhere hip-
plied the place of alphabetic characters. Thefe, it is
univerfally known, have been picture-writing, fuch as
that of the Pdexicans, which, in the progrefs of refine¬
ment and knowledge, was gradually improved into the
hieroglyphics of the Egyptians and other ancient na¬
tions. See Hieroglyphics.
That mankind fliould have lived near 1700 years,
from the creation of the world to the flood of Noah,
without falling upon any method to make their concep¬
tions permanent, or to communicate them to a diitance,
is extremely improbable ; efpecially when we call to
mind that fuch methods of writing have been found, in
modern times, among people much lefs enlightened than
thofe mud have been who were capable of building
fuch a velfel as the ark. But if the antediluvians weie
acquainted with any kind of writing, there can be little
doubt of its being hieroglyphical writing. Mr Bryant
has proved that the Chaldeans were poffeffed of that art
before the Egyptians ; and Berofus * informs us, that
a delineation of all the monftrous forms which inhabit¬
ed the chaos, when this earth was in that date, was to
be feen in the temple of Belus in Babylon. This deli¬
neation, as he deferibes it, mult have been a biftory in
hieroglyphical characters; for it confilted of human fi¬
gures with wings, with two heads, and fome with the
horns and legs of goats. This is exaCtly fimilar to the
hieroglyphical writing of the Egyptians ; and it was
preferved, our author fays, both in drawings and engra¬
vings in the temple of the god of Babylon. As Chal¬
dee was the firit peopled region of the earth after the
flood, and as it appears from Pliny f, as well as from
Berofus, that the art of engraving on bricks baked in
the fun was there carried to a confiderable degree of
perfection at a very early period, the probability cer¬
tainly is, that the Chaldeans derived the art of hierogly¬
phical writing, and confequently the rudiments of the
art of fculpture, from their antediluvian anceftors.
It is generally thought that fculpture had its origin
from idolatry, as it was found neceflfary to place betore
the people the images of their gods to enliven the fer¬
vour of their devotion : but this is probably a miltake.
The worlhip of the heavenly bodies, as the only gods
of the heathen nations, prevailed fo long before the dei¬
fication of dead men was thought of (fee Polytheism),
that we cannot fuppofe mankind to have been, during
all that time, ignorant of the art of hieroglyphical wri¬
ting. But the deification of departed heroes undoubt¬
edly gave rife to the almoft univerfal praCtice of repre-
fenting the gods by images of a human form ; and
therefore we mufl conclude, that the elements of fculp¬
ture were known before that art was employed to en¬
liven the devotion of idolatrous worfhippers. The py¬
ramids and obelifks of Egypt, which were probably7
temples, or rather altars, dedicated to the fun (fee Py¬
ramid), were covered from top to bottom with hiero-
giyphical emblems of men, bealts, birds, fillies, and rep¬
tiles. at a period prior to that in which there is any un¬
exceptionable evidence that mere ftatue-worihip pre¬
vailed even in that nurlery of idolatry.
But though it appears thus evident that picture-
writing was the firit employment of the fculptor, we probably
are far from imagining that idolatrous worlhip did not contributed
contribute to carry his art to that perfection which itt0 carry
attained in fome of the nations of antiquity. Even in ^fedlion
the dark ages of Europe, when the other fine arts were'01*'
almoft extinguithed, the mummery of the church of
Rome, and the veneration which Ihe taught tor her
faints and martyrs, preferved among the Italians fome
veltiges of the filler-arts of fculpture and painting ; and
therefore, as human nature is everywhere the lame, it
is reafonable to believe that a fimilar veneration fo'r he¬
roes and demigods would, among the ancient nations,
have a fimilar eftcCt. But if this be fo, the prefump-
tion is, that the Chaldeans were the firft wrho invented
the art of hewing blocks of wood and flone into the fi¬
gures of men and other animals; for the Chaldeans were
unqueftionably the firft idolaters, and their early pro¬
grefs in fculpture is confirmed by the united tellimonies
of Berofus, Alexander Polyhiftor, Apollodorus, and
Pliny ; not to mention the eaftern tradition, that the
father of Abraham was a ftatuary. ^
Again!! this conclufion Mr Bromley, in his late Hi-Mr Brom-
ftory of the Fine Arts, has urged fome plaufible argu-ley’s theo-
ments. In dating thefe he profefles not to be original, D, that
or to derive his information fiom the fountain-head was^iwe^it-
antiquity. He adopts, as he tells us, the theory of a td by the
French writer, who maintains, that in the year of the scythians,
world 1949, about 300 years after the deluge, the Scy-
ians under Brouma, a defeendant of Magog the fon
of Japhet, extended their conquefts over the greater part
of Afia. According to this fyftem, Brouma was not
only the civilizer of India, and the author of the brami-
nical doCtrines, but alfo diffufed the principles of the
Scythian mythology over Egypt, Phoenicia, Greece, and
the continent of Afia.
Of thefe principles Mr Bromley has given us no di-
ftinCt enumeration ; the account which he gives of them
is not to be found in one place, but to be collected from
a variety of diftant paffages. In attempting therefore
to prefent the fubftance of his fcattered hints intone
view, we will not be confident that we 'have omitted
none of them. The ox, fays he, was the Scythian em¬
blem of the generator of animal life, and hence it be¬
came the principal divinity of the Arabians. The fer-
pent was the fymbol of the fource of intelligent nature.
Thefe were the common points of union in all the firft
religions
X
SCULP
religions of the earth. From Egypt the Ifraelites car¬
ried with them a religious veneration for the ox and the
ierpent. Their veneration for the ox appeared foon af¬
ter thev marched into the wildernefs, when in the ab-
fence of Mofes they called upon Aaron to make them
gods which fhould go before them. The idea of ha¬
ving an idol to go before them, fays our author, was
completely Scythian 5 for fo the Scythians a&ed in all
their progrefs through Alia, with this difference, that
their idol was a living animal. The Ifraelites having
gained their favourite god, which was an ox (not a calf
as it is rendered in the book of Exodus), next proceed¬
ed to hold a feftival, which was to be accompanied
with dancing ■, a fpecies of gaiety common in the fefti-
vais which were held in adoration of the emblematic
Urotal or ox in that very part of Arabia near Mount
Sinai where this event took place. It is mentioned
too as a curious and important fa£f, that the ox which
was revered in Arabia was called Adovsz. According¬
ly Aaron announcing the feait to the ox or golden calf,
fbeaks thus, to-morrow is a feajl to Adonai, which is in
our translation rendered to the Lord. In the time of
Jeroboam we read of the golden calves fet up as objefts
of worship at Bethel and Dan. Nor was the reverence
paid to the ox confined to Scythia, to Egypt, and to
Afia ; it extended much farther. The ancient Cimbri,
as the Scythians did, carried an ox of bronze before them
on all their expeditions. Mr Bromley alfo informs us,
that as great refpect was paid to the living ox among
the Greeks as was offered to its fymbol among other na¬
tions.
The emblem of the ferpent, continues Mr Bromley,
was marked yet more decidedly by the exprefs direc¬
tion of the Almighty. That animal had ever been
confidered as emblematic of the fupreme generating
power of intelligent life : And was that idea, fays he,
difcouraged, fo far as it went to be a fign or fymbol of
life, when God faid to Mofes, “ Make thee a brazen
ferpent, and fet it on a pole, and it fhall come to pafs
that every one who is bitten, when he lookelh on it,
fhall live.” In Egypt the ferpent furrounded their Ills
and Ofiris, the diadems of their princes, and the bon¬
nets of their priefts. The ferpent made a diftinguifhed
figure in Grecian fculpture. The fable of Echidne,
the mother of the Scythians, gave her figure termina¬
ting as a ferpent to all the founders of Hates in Greece ;
from which their earlieft fculptors reprefented in that
form the Titan princes, Cecrops, Draco, and even Eric-
thonius. Beiides the fpear of the image of Minerva,
which Phidias made for the citadel of Athens, he pla¬
ced a ferpent, which wras fuppofed to guard that god-
defs.
The ferpent was combined with many other figures.
It fometimes was coiled round an egg as an emblem of
the creation ; fometimes round a trident, to fhow its
power over the fea ; fometimes it encircled a flambeau,
to reprefent life and death.
In F.gypt, as well as in Scythia and India, the di¬
vinity was reprefented on the leaves of the tamara or
lotus. Pan was worfhipped as a god in that country,
as well as over the eaft. Their fphinxes, and all their
combined figures of animal creation, took their origin
from the mother of the Scythians, who brought forth
an offspring that was half a woman and half a ferpent.
Their pyramids and obelifks arofe from the idea of flame j
T U R E. ' S'
the fir ft emblem of the fupreme principle, introduced by
the Scythians, and which even the influence of Zoroa-
fter and the Magi could not remove.
We are told that the Bacchus of the Greeks is de¬
rived from the Brouma of the Indians; that both are
reprefented as feated on a fwan fwimming over the
waves, to indicate that each was the god of humid na¬
ture, not the god of wine, but the god of waters. The
mitre of Bacchus was fliaped like half an egg 5 an em¬
blem taken from this circumftance, that at the creation
the egg from which all things fprung wras divided in the
middle. Pan alfo was revered among the Scythians ;
and from that people wrere derived all the emblems by
which the Greeks reprefented this divinity.
It would be tedious to follow7 our author through the
whole of this fubjeft ; and were we to fubmit to the la¬
bour of collecting and arranging his fcattered materials,
we fhould ftill view his fyftem with fome degree of fuf-
picion. It is drawn, as he informs us, from the work of
M. D’Ancarville, intitled, Recherches fur ROrigwe,
I'Efprit, et tes Progres, des Arts de la Grece. .
To form concluiions concerning the origin of nations, jp founded,
the rife and progrefs of the arts and fciences, without
the aid of hiftorical evidence, by analogies which arc
fometimes accidental, and often fanciful, is a mode of
reafoning which cannot readily be admitted. 1 here
may indeed, w7e acknowledge, be refemblances in the re¬
ligion, language, manners, and cuftoms, of different na¬
tions, fo ftriking and fo numerous, that to doubt of
their being defcended from the fame flock would favour
of fcepticifm. But hiftorical theories muft not be adopt¬
ed raflfty. We muft be certain that the evidence is
credible and fatisfa&ory before we proceed to deduce
any conclufions. We muft firft know whether the
Scythian hiftory itfelf be authentic, before we make
any comparifon with the hiftory of other nations. But
what is called the Scythian hiftory, every man of learn¬
ing knows to be a colleftion of fables. Herodotus and
Juftin are the two ancient writers from whom we have
the fulled; account of that warlike nation ; butthefe two
hiftorians contradict each other, and both write what
cannot be believed of the fame people at the fame pe¬
riod of their progrefs. Juftin tells us, that there was a
long and violent conteft between the Scythians and E-
gyptians about the antiquity of their refpeCtive nations 5
and after Hating the arguments on each fide of the que-
ftion, which, as he gives them *, are nothing to the pur- * p.
pofe, he decides in favour of the claim of the Scy-cap. i.
thians. Hefodotus was too partial to the Egyptians,
not to give them the palm of antiquity : and he was
probably in the right 5 for Juftin defcribes his mort an¬
cient of nations, even in the time of Darius Hyftafpes,
as ignorant of all the arts of civil life. “ They occu¬
pied their land in common (fays he), and cultivated
none of it. They had no houfes nor fettled habitations,
but wandered with their cattle from defert to defert.
In thefe rambles they carried their wives and children
in tumbrels covered with the {kins of beafts, which fer-
ved as houfes to proteft them from the ftorms of win¬
ter. They were without laws, governed by the diftates
of natural equity. They coveted not gold or filver like
the reft of mankind, and lived upon milk and honey.
Though they were expofed to extreme cold, and had
abundance of flocks, they knew not how to make gar¬
ments of wool, but clothed themfelves in the {kins of
52
t Lib. ii.
cap. i.
$ Lib. vii.
j Lib. iv.
cap. 6i.
6
Egyptian
fculpture.
SCULPTURE.
wild hearts f.” This is the moft favourable account
which any ancient writer gives of the Scythians. By
Strabo X and Herodotus § they are reprelented as the
molt favage of mortals, delighting in war and bloodihed,
cutting the throats of all ftrangers who came among
them, eating their flefh, and making cups and pots of
their fkulls. Is it conceivable that fuch favages could
be fculptors j or that, even fuppofing their manners to
have been fuch as Juftin reprefents them, a people fo
fxmple and ignorant could have impofed their mytho-
logy upon the Chaldeans, Phenicians, and Egyptians,
whom we know by the moil incontrovertible evidence
to have been great and polifhed nations fo early as in
the days of Abraham ? No ! We could as foon admit
other novelties of more importance, with which the
French of the prefent age pretend to enlighten the
world, as this origin afligned by Mr Bromley to the art
of fculpture, unlefs fupported by better authority than
that of D’Ancarville.
The inference of our author from the name of the
facred ox in Arabia, and from the dancing and gaiety
which were common in the religious feftivals of the
Arabians, appears to us to be very haftily drawn. At
the early period of the departure of the Ifraelites from
Egypt, the language of the Hebrews, Egyptians, and
Arabians, differed not more from each other than do
the different dialebts of the Greek tongue which are
found in the poems of Homer (fee Philology, Sed>.
III.) ; and it is certain, that for many years after the
iormution of the golden-calf, the Hebrews were flran-
gers to every fpecies of idolatry but that which they
had brought with them from their houfe of bondage.
See Remfhan.
Taking for granted, therefore, that the Scythians did
not impcfe their mythology on the eaftern nations, and
that the art of fculpture, as well as hieroglyphic writing
and idolatrous worlhip, prevailed firft among the Chal¬
deans, -we rtrall endeavour to trace the progrefs of this
art through fome other nations of antiquity, till we bring
it to Greece, where it was carried to the higheft per-
fe&ion to which it has yet attained.
The firrt intimation that we have of the art of fculp¬
ture is in the book of Genefis, where we are informed,
that when Jacob, by the divine command, wras return¬
ing to Canaan, his wife Rachel carried along with her
the teraphim or idols of her father. Thefe we are af-
fured were fmall, fmce Rachel found it fo eafy to con¬
ceal them from her father, notwithftanding his anxious
fearch. We are ignorant, however, how thefe images
were made, or of what materials they were compofed.
The firil perfon mentioned as an artift of eminence is
Bezaleel, who formed the cherubims which covered the
mercy- feat.
The Egyptians alfo cultivated the art of fculpture *,
but there were two circumftances which obftrufted its
progrefs, i. The perfons of the Egyptians were not
poffeffed of the graces of form, of elegance, or of fym-
metry } and of confequence they had no perfeft ftandard
to model their tafle. They refembled the Chinefe in
the cart of their face, in their great bellies, and in the
clumfy rounding of their contours. 2. They were re-
ftrained by their laws to the principles and praflices of
their anceftors, and were not permitted to introduce any
innovations. Their ftatues were always formed in the
fame ftiff attitude, with the arms hanging perpendicular¬
ly down the {ides. What perfection were they capable
of who knew no other attitude than that of chairmen ?
So far were they from attempting any improvements,
that in the time of Adrian the art continued in the
fame rude ftate as at firrt ; and when their llavilh adu¬
lation for that emperor induced them to place the fta-
tue of his favourite Antinous among the objefts of
their worfhip, the fame inanimate fliffnefs in the atti¬
tude of the body and pofition of the arms was obferved.
We believe it will fcarcely be neceffary to inform our
readers that the Egyptian ftatue juft now mentioned is
very different from the celebrated ftatue of Antinous,
of which fo many moulds have been taken that imita¬
tions of it are now to be met with almoft in every cabi¬
net in Europe.
Nothwithftanding the attachment of the Egyptians to
ancient ufages, Winkelman thinks he has difcovered two
different ftyles of fculpture which prevailed at different
periods. The firft of thefe ends with the conqueft of
Egypt by Cambyfes. The fecond begins at that time,
and extends beyond the reign of Alexander the Great. ^
In the firft ftyle, the lines which form the contour are Firft ftyle.
ftraight and projeCling a little j the pofition is ftiff and
unnatural : In fitting figures the legs are parallel, the
feet fqueezed together, and the arms fixed to the fides j
but in the figures of women the left arm is folded aerofs
the breaft j the bones and mufcles are faintly difcernible j
the eyes are flat and looking obliquely, and the eyebrows
funk—features which deftroy entirely the beauty of the
head ; the cheek-bones are high, the chin fmall and
piked ; the ears are generally placed higher than in na¬
ture, and the feet are too large and flat. In ftiort, if
we are to look for any model in the ftatues of Egypt,
it is not for the model of beauty but of deformity. The
ftatues of men are naked, only they have a fhort apron,
and a few folds of drapery furrounding their waift :
The veftments of women are only diftinguifhable by the
border, which rifes a little above the furface of the
ftatue. In this age it is evident the Egyptians knew
little of drapery. 8
Of the fecond ftyle of fculpture pradiced among the Second
Egyptians, Winkelman thinks he lias found fpecimensftyie.
in the two figures of bafaltes in the Capitol, and in an¬
other figure at Villa Albani, the head of which has
been renewed. The firft two of thefe, he remarks, bear
vifible traces of the former flyle, which appear efpecial-
ly in the form of the mouth and ftiortnefs of the. chin.
The hands pofi'efs more elegance; and the feet are
placed at a greater diftance from each other, than was
cuftomary in more ancient times. In the firft and third
figures the arms hang down clofe to the fides. In the
fecond they hang more freely. Winkelman fufpe&s
that thefe three ftatues have been made after the con¬
queft of Egypt by the Greeks. They are clothed with
a tunic, a robe, and a mantle. The tunic, which is
puckered into many folds, defcends from the neck to
the ground. The robe in the firft and third ftatues
feems clofe to the body, and is only perceptible by
fome little folds. It is tied under the breaft, and cover¬
ed by the mantle, the two buttons of which are placed
under the epaulet.
The Antinous of the Capitol is compofed of two
pieces, which are joined under the haunches. But as
all the Egyptian ftatues which now remain have been
hewn out of one block, we muff; believe that Diodorus,
in
53
SCULP
in faying the (tone was divided, and each half finifhed
by a feparate artizan, fpoke only of a coloffus. The
fame author informs us, that the Egyptians divided the
human body into 24^ parts j but it is to be regretted
that he has not given a more minute detail of that dh
vilion.
The Egyptian ftatues were not only formed by the
chifel, they were all'o polifhed with great care. Even
thofe on the fummit of an obelilk, which could only be
viewed at a diftance, were finilhed with as much labour
and care as if they had admitted a clofe infpeftion. As
they are generally executed in granite or bafaltes, Hones
of a very hard texture, it is impoflible not to admire the
indefatigable patience of the artifts.
The eye was often of different materials from the reft
of the ftatue j fometimes it was compofed of a precious
ftone or metal. We are affured that the valuable dia¬
mond of the emprefs of Ruffia, the largeft and moft
beautiful hitherto known, formed one of the eyes of the
famous ftatue of Scheringham in the temple of Bra-
ma.
Thofe Egyptian ftatues which ftill remain are com¬
pofed of wood or baked earth : and the ftatues of earth
are covered with green enamel.
Phenfcian The Phenicians poffeffed both a charafter and fitua-
iculpture. ti°n highly favourable to the cultivation of ftatuary.
They had beautiful models in their own perfons, and
their induftrious charafter qualified them to attain per-
fedlion in every art for which they had a tafte. Their
fituation raifed a fpirit of commerce, and commerce in¬
duced them to cultivate the arts. Their temples ftione
with ftatues and columns of gold, and a profufion of
emeralds was everywhere fcattered. All the great works
of the Phenicians have been unfortunately deftroyed ;
but many of the Carthaginian medals are ftill preferved,
ten of which are depofited in the cabinet of the grand
duke of Florence. But though the Carthaginians were
a colony of Phenicians, we cannot from their works
10 jU(^Ke °‘ ^ie merit of their anceftors.
This art not The Perfians made no diftinguifhed figure in the arts
cultivated of defign. They were indeed lenfible to the charms of
t*ie beauty, but they did not ftudy to imitate them. Their
1 ‘ drefs, which confifted of long flowing robes concealing
the whole perfon, prevented them from attending to the
beauties of form. Their religion, too, which taught
them to worfhip the divinity in the emblem of fire, and
that it was impious to reprefent him under a human
form, feemed almoft to prohibit the exercife of this art,
by taking away thofe motives which alone could give it
dignity and value ; and as it was not cuftomary among
them to raife ftatues to great men, it was impoflible that
„ ftatuary could flourilh in Perfia.
Etrurian The Etrurians or ancient Tufcans, in the opinion of
fculpture. Winkelman, carried this art to fome degree of perfec¬
tion at an earlier period than the Greeks. It is faid to
have been introduced before the firge of Troy by De-
dalus, who, in order to efcape the reientment of Minos
king of Crete, took refuge in Sicily, from whence he
paffed into Italy, where he left many monuments of his
art. Paufanias and Diodorus Siculus informs us, that
(ome works afcribed to him were to be feen when they
wrote, and that thefe poffeffed that charafter of majef-
ty which afterwards diftinguilhed the labours of Etru¬
ria.
A character ftrongjy marked forms the chief diftinc-
T U R E.
lion in thofe produ&ions of Etruria which have defcend-
ed to us. Their ftyle was indeed harflr and overchar¬
ged ; a fault alfo committed by Michael Angelo the ce¬
lebrated painter of modern Etruria •, for it is not to be
luppoled that a people of fuch rude manners as the E-
trurians could communicate to their works that vivid-
nefs and beauty which the elegance of Grecian manners
infpired. On the other hand, there are many of the
Tufcan ftatues which bear fo clofe a refemblance to
thofe of Greece, that antiquarians have thought it pro¬
bable that they were conveyed from that country, or
Magna Graecia, into Etruria, about the time of the Ro¬
man conqueft, when Italy was adorned with the fpoils
of Greece. J2
Among the monuments of Etrurian art two different pirft ftyle*.
ftyles have been obferved. In the firft the lines are
ftraight, the attitude ftiff, and no idea of beauty ap¬
pears in the formation of the head. The contour is
not well rounded, and the figure is too flender. The
head is oval, the chin piked, the eyes flat, and looking
afquint.
Thefe are the defefts of an art in a ftate of infancy,
which an accompliflied mafter could never fall into, and
are equally confpicuous in Gothic ftatues as in the pro-
du&ions of the ancient natives of Florence. They re-
femble the ftyle of the Egyptians fo much, that one is
almoft induced to fuppofe that there had once been a
communication between thefe two nations; but others
think that this ftyle was introduced by Dedalus. 13
Winkelman fuppofes that the fecond epoch of this Second
art commenced in Etruria, about the time at which
had reached its greateft perfe&ion in Greece, in the
age of Phidias j but this conjefture is not fupported by
any proofs. To defcribe the fecond ftyle of fculpture
among the Etrurians, is almoft the fame as to defcribe
the ftyle of Michael Angelo and his numerous imita¬
tors. The joints are ftrongly marked, the mufcles
raifed, the bones diftinguifhable } but the whole mien
harfh. In defigning the bone of the leg, and the fepa-
ration of the mufcles of the calf, there is an elevation
and ftrength above life. The ftatues of the gods are de-
figned with more delicacy. In forming them, the ar-
tifts w'ere anxious to Ihow that they could exercife their
power without that violent diftenfion of the mufcles
which is neceflary in the exertions of beings merely
human ; but in general their attitudes are unnatural, and
the aftions ftrained. If a ftatue, for inftance, hold any
thing with its fore fingers, the reft are ftretched out in a
ftiff pofition.
According to ancient hiftory, the Greeks did not
emerge from the favage ftate till a long time after the
Egyptians, Chaldeans, and Indians, had arrived at a
confiderable degree of civilization. The original rude
inhabitants of Greece were civilized by colonies which
arrived among them, at different times, from Egypt
and Phenicia. Thefe brought along with them the re,
ligion, the letters, and the arts of their parent coun¬
tries : and if fculpture had its origin from the worfhip
of idols, there is reafon to believe that it was one or
the arts which were thus imported ; for that the gods
of Greece were of Egyptian and. Phenician estraftioa
is a fa£t incontrovertible (fee Mysteries, Mytho¬
logy, Philology, Seft. VII. Philosophy, N° 19,
and Titan). The original ftatues of the gods, how¬
ever, were very rude. The earlieft objects of idolatrous
wcrfliip
54
SCULPT U R E.
vvorfliip have everywhere bees the heavenly bodies •, and
the fymbols confecrated to them were generally pillars
of a conical or pyramidal ligure. It was not till hero-
worlhip was engrafted on the planetary, that the fculp-
tor thought of giving to the facred flatue any part of the
human form (lee Polytheism, N° 19, 23.); and ‘t
appears to have been about the era of their revolution
in idolatry that the art of fculpture was introduced
among the Greeks. The firfi: reprefentations of their
gods were round Hones placed upon cubes o* pillars ;
and thefe Hones they afterwards formed roughly, lo as
to give them fomething of the appearance of a head.
Agreeable to this defcription was a Jupiter, which Pau-
fanias faw in Tegeum, in Arcadia. Thefe reprefenta¬
tions were called Hermes; not that they reprefented
Mercury, but from the word Herma, which fignified a
rough Hone. It is the name which Homer gives to
the Hones which were ufed to fix velfels to the flrore.
Paufanias faw at Pheres 30 deities made of unformed
blocks or cubical Hones. The Lacedemonians repre¬
fented Caflor and Pollux by two parallel polls ; and a
tranfverfe beam was added, to exprefs their mutual af¬
fection.
If the Greeks derived from foreign nations the rudi¬
ments of the arts, it mufi redound much to their ho¬
nour, that in a few centuries they carried them to fuch
wonderful perfeftion as entirely to eclipfe the fame of
their mafiers. It is by tracing the progrefs of fculpture
among them that we are to Hudy the hifiory of this art 5
and we fliall fee its origin and fucccffive improvements
correfpond with nature, which always operates fiowly
and gradually.
View of Grecian Sculpture.
Caufes The great fuperiority of the Greeks in the art of
which pro- fculpture may be afcribed to a variety of caufes. ihe
rooted the Jnfiuence of climate over the human body is fo Hriking,
ture tCUiP" that it muff have fixed the attention of every thinking
Greece. man who has refle&ed on the fubjefl. The violent
heats of the torrid zone, and the exceffive cold of the
polar regions, are unfavourable to beauty. It is only
in the mild climates of the temperate regions that it
appears in its moH attraftive charms. Perhaps no coun¬
try in the world enjoys a more ferene air, lefs tainted with
miHs and vapours, or poffeffes in a higher degree tl-it
mild and genial warmth which can unfold and expand
the human body into all the fymmetry of mufcular
Hrength, and all the delicacies of female beauty in great¬
er perfection, than the happy climate of Greece; and
never was there any people that had a greater tafie for
beauty, or were move anxious to improve it. Of the
four wiflies of Simonides, the fecond was to have a hand-
fome figure. The love of beauty was fo great among
the Lacedemonian women, that they kept in their
chambers the flatues of Nereus, of Narciffus, of Hya-
cinthus, and of Caflor and Pollux *, hoping that by
often contemplating them they might have beautiful
children.
There was a variety of circumflances in the noble and
virtuous freedom of the Grecian manners that rendered
thefe models of beauty peculiarly fubfervient to the
cultivation of the fine arts. There were no tyrannical
laws, as among the Egyptians, to check their progrefs.
Thevhad the belt opportunities to fludy them in the
2
public places, where the youth, who needed no other veil
than chaflity and purity of manners, performed their
various exercifes quite naked. They had the flrongeft
motives to cultivate fculpture, for a Hatue was the high-
efl honour which public merit could attain. It was an
honour ambitioufly fought, and granted only to thole
who had diflinguithed them'elves in the eyes of their
fellow citizens. As the Gi-eeks preferred natural qua¬
lities to acquired accomplifliments, they decreed the
firfl rewards to thofe who excelled in agility and Hrength
of body. Statues were often raifed to wrefllers. Even
the mofl eminent men of Greece, in their youth, fought
renown in gymnaflic exercifes. Chryfippus and Cle-
anthes diflinguilhed themfelves in the public games be¬
fore they were known as phiiofophers. Plato appeared
as a wrefller both at the Iflhmian and Pythian games j
and Pythagoras carried off the prize at Elis, (lee Py¬
thagoras). The paflion by which they were infpired
was the ambition of having their Hatues ereffed in the
moff facred place of Greece, to be feen and admired by
the whole people. The number of flatues erected on
different occafions was immenle ; of courfe the number
of artiHs mult have been great, their emulation ardent,
and their progrefs rapid.
As mofl: of their ftatues were decreed for thofe who
vanquilhed in the public games, the artifts had the op¬
portunity of feeing excellent models ; for thafe who
furpaffed in running, boxing, and wreftling, mult in ge¬
neral have been well formed, yet would exhibit different
kinds of beauty.
The high eftimation in which fculptors were held
was very favourable to their art. Socrates declared the
artifts the only wife men. An artift could be a legifla-
tor, a commander of armies, and might hope to have
his flatue placed befide thofe of Miltiades and Themii-
tocles, or thofe of the gods themfelves. Befides, the
honour and fuccefs of an artift did not depend on the
caprice of pride or of ignorance. The produftions of
.art w’ere eflimated and rewarded by the greateft fages in
the general affembly of Greece, and the fculptor who
had executed his wTork wdth ability and tafte was confi¬
dent of obtaining immortality.
It was the opinion of Winkelman, that liberty was
highly favourable to this art ; but, though liberty is ab-
folutelv neceffary to the advancement of fcience, it may
be doubted whether the fine arts owe their improvement
to it. Sculpture fiourithed mofl: in Greece, when Pe¬
ricles exercifed the powder of a king ; and in the reign
of Alexander, when Greece was conquered. It attain¬
ed no perfetHon in Rome till Auguftus had enflaved the
Romans. It revived in Italy under the patronage of the
family of Medici, and in France under the defpotic rule
of Louis XIV. It is the love of beauty, luxury, wealth,
or the patronage of a powerful individual, that promotes
the progrefs of this art. 15
It will now be proper to give a particular account of Grecian
the ideas which the Greeks entertained concerning the“!ea^of
flandard of beauty in the different parts of the human '
body. And with refpeft to the head, the profile which 1<rj r,
they chiefly admired is peculiar to dignified beauty. It  
confifts in a line almoft ftraight, or marked by fuch
flight and gentle infledlions as are fcarcely diftinguifha-
ble from a ftraight line. In the figures of women and
young perfons, the forehead and nofe form a line ap¬
proaching to a perpendicular.
Ancient
55
SCULPTOR E.
*7 Ancient writers, as well as artifts, allure us tliat tKe
Tht fore- Greeks reckoned a fmall forehead a mark of beauty,
and a high forehead a deformity. From the fame idea,
the Circaffians wore their hair hanging down over their
foreheads almoft to their eyebrows. To give an oval
form to the countenance, it is neceffary that the hair
fliould cover the forehead, and thus make a curve about
the temples ; otherwife the face, which terminates in an
oval form in the inferior part, will be angular in the
higher part, and the proportion will be deftroyed. I his
rounding of the forehead may be feen in all handfome
perfons, in all the heads of ideal beauty in ancient 11a-
tues, and efpecially in thofe of youth. It has been
overlooked, however, by modern ftatuaries. Bernini,
who modelled a Hatue of Louis XIV. in his youth, turn-
lg ed back the hair from the forehead.
The eyes. It is generally agreed that large eyes are beautiful j
but their fize is of lefs important; in fculpture than their
form, and the manner in which they are enchafed. In
ideal beauty, the eyes are always funk deeper than they
are in nature, and coniequently the eyebrows have a
greater projection. But in large iiatues, placed at a
certain diftance, the eyes, which are of the fame colour
with the reft of the head, would have little effeft if they
were not funk. By deepening the cavity of the eye,
the ftatuary increafes the light and ftiade, and thus gives
the head more life and expreflion. The fame practice
is ufed in fmall ftatues. The eye is a charableriftic
feature in the heads of the different deities. In the
llatues of Apollo, Jupiter, and Juno, the eye is large and
round. In thofe of Pallas they are alfo large ; but by
lowering the eyelids, the virgin air and expreftion of mo-
defty are delicately marked. Venus has fmall eyes, and
the lower eyelid being raifed a little, gives them a lan-
guiftiing look and enchanting fweetnefs. It is only
neccffary to fee the Venus de Medicis to be convinced
that large eyes are not effential to beauty, efpecially If
we compare her fmall eyes with thofe which referable
them in nature. The beauty of the eyebrow's confifts
in the finenefs of the hair, and in the fharpnels of the
bone which covers them; and mafters of the art con-
fidered the joining of the eyebrows as a deformity,
though it is fometimes to be met with in ancient 11a-
T9 tues.
The mouth. The beauty of the mouth is peculiarly neceffary to
conftitute a fine face. The lower lip muft be fuller
thnn the upper, in order to give an elegant rounding
to the chin. The teeth feldom appear, except in laugh¬
ing fatyrs. In human figures the lips are generally clofe,
and a little opened in the figures of the gods, The lips
of Venus are half open.
In figures of ideal beauty, the Grecian artifts never
interrupted the rounding of the chin by introducing a
dimple : for this they confidered not as a mark of beau¬
ty, and only to be admitted to diftinguifh individuals.
The dimple indeed appears in fome ancient ftatues, but
antiquaries fufpeift it to be the work of a modern hand.
It is fufpeffed alfo, that the dimple which is fometimes
found on the cheeks of ancient ftatues is a modern inno¬
vation.
*20
The ears. No part of the head w^as executed by the ancients
with more care than the ears, though little attention has
been given to them by modern artifts. This charafler
is fo decifive, that if we obferve in any ftatue that the
ears are not highly fiuilhed, but only roughly markedj
we may conclude with certainty that rve are examining
a modern production. The ancients were very attentive
to copy the precife form of the car in taking likeneffes.
Thus, where we meet with a head the ears of which
have a very large interior opening, we know it to be
the head of Marcus Aurelius. 2i
The manner in which the ancient artifts formed the The hair,
hair alfo enables us to diilinguilh their works from
thofe of the moderns. On hard and coarfe ftones the
hair w'as Ihort, and appeared as if it had been combed
with a wide comb } for that kind of ftone was difficult
to work, and could not without immenfe labour be
formed into curled and flowing hair. But the figures
executed in marble in the rnoft tlouriftiing period of the
art have the hair curled and ilowing j at leaf! where the
head was not intended to be an exaft refemblance, for
then the artift conformed to liis model. In the heads of
women, the hair was thrown back, and tied behind in a
waving manner, leaving confiderable intervals ; which
gives the agreeable variety of light and ftiade, and pro¬
duces the efteefs of the claro-obfcuro. The hair of the
Amazons is difpofed in this manner. Apollo and Bac¬
chus have their hair falling down their fhoulders ; and
young perfons, till they arrived at manhood, wore their
hair long. The colour of the hair which was reckon¬
ed moft beautiful, was fair; and this they gave without
diftinCHon to the moft beautiful of their gods, Apollo
and Bacchus, and likewife to their moft illuftrious he¬
roes.
Although the ravages of time have preferved but jlan(]s
few of the hands or feet of ancient ftatues, it is evident
from what remains how anxious the Grecian artifts
wrere to give every perfeftion to thefe parts. The
hands of young perfons were moderately plump, with
little cavities or dimples at the joints of the fingers.
The fingers tapered very gently from the root to the
point, like well-proportioned columns, and the joints
W'ere fcarcely perceptible. The terminating joint was
not bent, as it commonly appears in modern ftatues.
In the figures of young men the joints of the knee-phe l<ws
are faintly marked. The knee unites the leg to the and feet,
thigh without making any remarkable projections or
cavities. The mod beautiful kgs and beft-turned knees,
according to Winkelman, are preferved in the Apollo
Sauroddhones, in the Villa Borghefe j in the Apollo
which has a fwan at its feet; and in the Bacchus cf Vil¬
la Medicis. The fame able connoiffeur remarks, it is
rare to meet with beautiful knees in young perfons, or
in the elegant reprefentations of art. As the ancients •
did not cover the feet as we do, they g?.ve to them the
moft beautiful turning, and ftudied the form of them
with the moft fcrupulous attention.
The breafts of men wrere large and elevated. The The breaft'
breafts of women did not poffefs much amplitude. Theanct 10^rer
figures of the deities have always the breafts of a virgin, £a',t>ot l^e 1
the beauty of which the ancients made to confift in'a
gentle elevation. So anxious were the wTcmen to re-
femble this ftandard, that they ufed feveral arts to re-
ftrain the growth of their breafts. The breafts of the
nymphs and goddeffes were never reprefented fwelling,
becaufe that is peculiar to thofe wromen 'who fuckle.
The paps of Venus contraCt and end in a point, this
being confidered as an effential charaderiftic of perfed
beauty. Some of the moderns have tranfgreffed thefe
ruleSj and have fallen into great improprieties.
The
56
S C U L I
The lower part of the body in the flatues of men
was formed like that of the living body after a profound
fleep and good digeftion. The navel was confiderably
funk, efpecially in female flatues.
Ideal beau- As beauty never appears in equal perfe&ion in every
ty- part of the fame individual, perfect or ideal beauty can
only be produced by feledling the moft beautiful parts
from different models} but this muff be done with fuch
judgement and care, that thefe detached beauties when
united may form the moft exaft fymmetry. Yet the
ancients fometimes confined themfelves to one indivi¬
dual, even in the moft flourifhing age. Theodorus,
whom Socrates and his difciples vifited, ferved as a mo¬
del to the artifts of his time. Phryne alfo appears to
have been a model to the painters and fculptors. But
Socrates, in his converfation with Parrhafius, fays, that
when a perfeft beauty was to be produced, the artifts
joined together the moft ftriking beauties which could
be colle&ed from the fineft figures. We know that
Zeuxis, when he wfas going to paint Helen, united in
one picture all the beauties of the moft handfome women
of Crotona.
26
The dra- The Grecian fculptors, who reprefented wdth fuch
pery ol fta- fuccefs the moft perfedt beauty of the human form, were
tues‘ not regardlefs of the drapery of their ftatues. They
clothed their figures in the moft proper fluff, which
they wrought into that fhape which was beft calculated
to give effedl to their defign.
The veftments of women in Greece generally con-
fifted of linen cloth, or fome other light fluff, and in
latter times of filk and fometimes of woollen cloth.
They had alfo garments embroidered wdth gold. In the
works of fculpture, as wrell as in thofe of painting, one
may diftinguifh the linen by its tranfparency and fmall
united folds. The other light fluffs which were worn
by the wTomen (a) were generally of cotton produced in
the ifle of Cos 5 and thefe the art of ftatuary was able to
diftinguifh from the linen veftments. The cotton cloth
was fometimes ftriped, and fometimes embellifhed with
a profufion of flowers. Silk was alfo employed ; but
whether it wras known in Greece before the time of the
Roman emperors cannot eafily be determined. In paint¬
ings, it is diftinguifhable by changing its colour in dif¬
ferent lights to red, violet, and fky-blue. '.Lhere were
two forts of purple ; that which the Greeks called the
colour of the fea, and Tyrian purple, which refembled
lac. Woollen garments are eafily known by the ampli¬
tude of their folds. Befides thefe, cloth of gold fome¬
times compofed their drapery : but it vcas not like the
modern fabric, confifting of a thread of gold or of filver
fpun w ith a thread of filk ; it was compofed of gold or
filver alone, without any mixture.
The veftments of the Greeks, which deferve particu-
lar attention, are the tunic, the robe, and the mantle.
The tunic. The tunic wras that part of the drefs which wras next
to the body. It may be feen in {leeping figures, or in
thofe in diftiabille j as in the Flora Farnefe, and in the
flatues of the Amazons in the Capitol. The youngeft
of the daughters of Niobe, who throws herfelf at her
——   — —
(a) Men fometimes wore cotton, but
1
T U ft fi.
mother’s fide, is clothed only with a tunic. It was of
linen, or fome other light fluff, without fleeves, fixed
to the fhoulders by a button, fo as to cover the whole
breaft. None but the tunics of the goddefs Ceres and
comedians have long ftraight fleeves. 23
The robes of wTomen commonly confifted of two long The robe.-
pieces of woollen cloth, without any particular form, at¬
tached to the {boulders by a great many buttons, and
fometimes by a clafp. They had ftraight fleeves which
came down to the wrifts. The young girls, as wTell as
the wmmen, faftened their robe to their fide by a cinc-
tui'e, in the fame w’ay as the high-prieft of the Jew’s fa¬
ftened his, as it is ftill done in many parts of Greece.
The cinflure formed on the fide a knot of ribbons
fometimes refembling a rofe in flrape, which has been
particularly remarked in the two beautiful daughters of
Niobe. In the younger of thefe the cindlure is feen puf¬
fing over the fhoulders and the back. Venus has two
cindlures, the one pafling over the fhoulder, and the
other furrounding the waift. The latter is called cejlus
by the poets. 2p
The mantle was called peplon by the Greeks, which The ma».
fignifies properly the mantle of Pallas. The name was tie.
afterwards applied to the mantles of the other gods, as
w’ell as to thofe of men. This part of the drefs was not
fquare, as fome have imagined, but of a roundifh form.
The ancients indeed fpeak in general of fquare mantles,
but they received this fhape from four taffels which
were affixed to them ‘x two of thefe were vifible, and
two were concealed under the mantle. The mantle
w7as brought under the right arm, and over the left
fhoulder •, fometimes it was attached to the fhoulder by
two buttons, as may be feen in the beautiful flatue of
Leucothoe at Villa Albani. ,0
The colour of veftments peculiar to certain ftatues is The colour
too curious to be omitted. To begin writh the figures of of the veft-
the gods.—The drapery of Jupiter wras red, that of Nep- ments.
tune is fuppofed by Winkelman to have been fea-green.
The fame colour alfo belonged to the Nereids and
Nymphs. The mantle of Apollo was blue or violet.
Bacchus was dreffed in white. Martianus Capella af-
figns green to Cybele. Juno’s veftments were fky-blue,
but fhe fometimes had a white veil. Pallas was robed
in a flame-coloured mantle. In a painting of Hercula¬
neum, Venus is in flowing drapery of a golden yellow.
Kings were arrayed in purple ; priefts in white j and
conquerors fometimes in fea-green.
With refpedl to the head, women generally wmre no
covering but their hair ; when they wifhed to cover
their head, they ufed the corner of their mantle.—
Sometimes wre meet with veils of a fine tranfparent tex¬
ture. Old women wmre a kind of bonnet upon their
head, an example of which may be feen in a flatue in
the Capitol, called the Prafica ; but Winkelman thinks
it is a ftatue of Hecuba.
The covering of the feet confifted of flioes or fandals.
The fandals were generally an inch thick, and compofed
of more than one foie of cork. Thofe of Pallas in Villa
Albani has two foies, and other ftatues had no lefs than
five.
Winkelman
who did fo were reckoned effeminate.
Tour fty'e'
of thi< a t
amO'ig the
Creek-.
32
The ao-
«teut Ityle.
33 t
'The grand
ftyle.
SCULP
WiNKELMAV has afligned four different ftyles to this
art. The ancient ftyle, which continued until the time
of Phidias ; the ttyle, formed by that celebrated
Italuary \ the beautiful, introduced by Praxiteles, A-
pelles, and Ly lip pus; and tile imitative Uyle, pratlifed by
thole artids who copied the works of the ancient mailers.
The molt authentic monuments of the ancient ityle
are medals, containing an infeription, which leads us
back to very ddlant tunes. The writing is from right
to left in the Henrew manner ; a ufage which was aban¬
doned be* e the tune of Herodotus. The ilatue of
Agamem Elis, which was made by Ornatas, has
an iniedpdo from tight to left. This artiian tiourifh-
ed 50 years beiore Phidias ; it is in the intervening pe¬
riod ib ere lore between thefe two artids, tnat we are to
look for the ceffation of this pradice. The ilatues
formed in the ancient ft)le were neither diilmguiihed
by beauty of (nape nor by proportion, but bore a ciofe
refemblance to thole of ihe Egyptians and Etrurians
(b) j the eyes were long and flat } the fedion of the
mouth not horizontal ; the chin was pointed ; the curls
of the hair were ranged in little rings, and refembled
grains inclofed in a heap of raifins. What was ftill
worfe, it was impoflible by infpeding the head to diltin-
guifh the fex.
The charaders of this ancient flyle were thefe : The
defigning was energetic, but harfh ; it was animated,
but without gracehdnefs j and the violence of the ex-
preffion deprived the whole figure of beauty.
The grand flyle was brought to perfedion by Phi¬
dias, Polycletus, Scopas, Alcamenes, Myron, and other
illuflrious artifls. It is probable, from fame paffages of
ancient writers, that in this llyle were preferved fome
charaders of the ancient manner, fuch as the ftraight
lines, the fquares and angles. The ancient mailers,
fuch as Polycletus, being the legiflators of proportions,
fays Winkelman, and of confequence thinking they had
a right to diflribute the meafures and dimenfions of the
parts of the human body, have undoubtedly facrificed
ibrne degree of the form of beauty to a grandeur which
is harfh, in comparifon of the flowing contours and
graceful forms of their fucceffors.—'Che moft confider-
able monuments of the grand flyle are the flatties of
Niobe and her daughters, and a figure of Pallas, to be
leen in Villa Albani ; which, how'ever, mull not be
confounded with the flatue which is modelled according
to the firfl flyle, and is alfo found in the fame place.
The head poffeffes all the charaders of dignified beauty,
at the fame time exhibiting the rigidnefs of the an¬
cient ftyle. The face is defedive in gracefulnefs; yet
it is evident how eafy it would have been to give the
features more roundnefs and grace. The figures of
Niobe and her daughters have not, in the opinion of
Winkelman, that auflerity of appearance which marks
the age of the flatue of Pallas. They are charaderifed
by grandeur and fimplicity : fo fimple are the forms,
that they do not appear to be the tedious produdions of
art, but to have been created by an inflantaneous effort
of nature.
Vol. XIX. Part I.
TUBE. , 57
The third ftyle was the graceful or beautiful. Ly- 34
fippus was perhaps the artill who introduced this
Being more converfant than his predeceffois with the ^
fweet, the pure, the flowing, and the beautiful lines of
nature, he avoided the fquare forms which the mafters
of the fecond llyle had too much employed. He was of
opinion that the ufe of the art was rather to pleafe than
to aftonifti, and that the aim of the artilf fhould be to
raife admiration by giving delight. Ihe artifts who
cultivated this ftyle did not, however, negled to ftudy
the fublime works of their predeceffors. They knew
that grace is confiftent with the moft dignified beauty,
and that it poffeffes charms which mult ever pleale ;
they knew alfo that thefe charms are enhanced by dig¬
nity. Grace is infufed into all the movements and atti¬
tudes of their ftatues, and it appears in the delicate turns
of the hair, and even in the adjufting of the drapery.
Every fort of grace was well known to the ancients ;
and great as the ravages of time have been amongft the
works of art, fpecimens are ftill preferved, in which can
be diftinguifhed dignified beauty, attraBive beauty, and
a beauty peculiar to infants. A fpecimen of dignified
beauty may be feen in the ftatue of one of the mules in
the palace of Barberini at Rome ; and in the garden of
the pope, on the Quirinal, is a ftatue of another mufe,
which affords a fine inllance of attrablive beauty. Win¬
kelman fays that the moil excellent model of infant
beauty which antiquity has tranfmitted to us is a fatyr
of a year old, which is preferved, though a little muti¬
lated, in Villa Albani. 35 .
The great reputation of Praxiteles and Apelles railed 1"lie i™*1*
an ardent emulation in their fucceffors, who defpairing
to furpafs luch illuftrious mafters, were fatisfied with
imitating their works. But it is well known that a mere
imitator is always inferior to the mafter whom he at¬
tempts to copy. When no original genius appears, the
art mult therefore decline.
36
Clay was the firft material which was employed in Materials
ftatuary. An inftance of this may be feen in a figure o* Grecian
of Alcamenes in bas-relief in Villa Albani. The an- kdtues-
cients ufed their fingers, and efpecially their nails, to
render certain parts more delicate and lively : hence
arofe the phrafe ad ungue/n faftus homo, “ an accom- clay ani
pliftied man.” It was the opinion of Count Caylus thatplafter.
the ancients did not ufe models in forming their ftatues.
But to difprove this, it is only neceffary to mention an
engraving on a Hone in the cabinet of Slofch, which re-
prefents Prometheus engraving the figure of a man, with
a plummet in his hand to meafure the proportions of his
model. The ancients as well as the moderns made
works in plafter ; but no fpecimens remain except fome
figures in bas-relief, of which the moft beautiful were
found at Baia.
The works made of ivory and filver were generalty ivory fij„
of a fmall fize. Sometimes, however, ftatues of a pro-ver) a’ri4
digious fize were formed of gold and ivory. The co- gold,
loffal Minerva of Phidias, which was compofed of thefe
materials, was 26 cubits high. It is indeed fcarcely
PI poflible
(b) This is a proof additional to thofe that will be found in the articles to which we have referred, that the
Greeks received the rudiments of the art of fculpture from the nations lo which they were confeffedly indebted for
ths elements of fcience.
.'9
Marble.
40
Porphyry.
4r
Expreffion
and atti¬
tude.
42
In the fta-
tues of the
*ods.
Iw the ft.l-
*uts of
heroes
SCULP
pofllble to believe that ftatues of fuch a fize could en¬
tirely confifl of gold and ivory. The quantity of ivory
neceffary to a coloffal fiatue is beyond conception. M.
de Paw calculates that the ftatue of Jupiter Olympus,
which was 54 feet high, would confume the teeth of
300 elephants.
The Greeks generally hewed their marble flatues out
of one block, though they after worked the heads fepa-
rately, and fometimes the arms. The heads of the
famous group of Niobe and her daughters have been
adapted to their bodies after being feparately finifned.
It is proved by a large figure reprefen ting a river, which
is preferved in Villa Albani, that the ancients firft
hewed their ftatues roughly before they attempted to
finilh any part. When the ftatue had received its per¬
fect figure, they next proceeded to polfth it with pumice-
ftone, and again carefully retouched every part with the
chifel.
The ancients, when they employed porphyry, ufually
made the head and extremities of marble. It is true,
that at Venice there are four figures entirely compofed
of porphyry ^ but thefe are the productions of the
Greeks of the middle age. They alfo made ftatues'of
bafaltes and alabafter.
Without expreffi.on, gefture, and attitude, no figure
can be beautiful, becaufe in thefe the graces always re-
fide. It was for this reafon that the graces are always
reprefented as the companions of Venus.
The exprefiion of tranquillity was frequent in Grecian
ftatues, becaufe, according to Plato, that was confider-
ed as the middle ftate of the foul between pleafure and
pain. Experience, too, fhows that in general the moft
beautiful perfons are endowed with thefweeteft and moft
engaging manner. Without a fedate tranquillity digni¬
fied beauty could not exift. It is in this tranquillity,
therefore, that we muft look for the complete difplay of
genius.
The moft elevated fpecies of tranquillity and repofe
was ftudied in the figures of the gods. The father of the
gods, and even inferior divinities, are reprefented with¬
out emotion or refentment. It is thus that Homer paints
Jupiter (baking Olympus by the motion of his hair and
his eyebrows.
Shakes his ambrofial curls, and gives the nod,
The ftamp of fate and fan ft ion of the god.
Jupiter is not always exhibited in this tranquil ftate. In
a bas-relief belonging to the marquis Ilondini he ap¬
pears feated on an arm-chair with a melancholy afpeft.
The Apollo of the Vatican reprefents the god in a fit of
rage againft the ferpent Python, which he kills at a
blow. The artift, adopting the opinion of the poets, has
made the nofe the feat of anger, and the lips the feat of
difdain.
To exprefs the aftion of a hero, the Grecian fculptors
delineated the countenance of a noble virtuous charafter
xeprefting his groans, and allowing no expreffion of pain
to appear. In defcribing the aftions of a hero the
poet has much more liberty than the artift. The poet
can paint them fuch as they were before men were
taught to fubdue their paffions by the reftraints of law,
or the refined cuftoms of focial life. Eut the artift,
obliged to feleft the moft beautiful forms, is reduced to
the neceffity of giving fuch an expr effion of the paffions
T U It E.
as may not (hock our feelings and difguft us with his
produftion. The truth of thefe remarks will be ac¬
knowledged by thofe who have feen two of the moft beau¬
tiful monuments of antiquity j one of which reprefents
the fear of death, the other the moft; violent pains and
fufferings. The daughters of Niobe, againft whom Diana
has difcharged her fatal arrows, are exhibited in that
ftate of ftupefaftion which vve imagine muft take place
when the certain profpeft of death deprives the foul of
ail fenfibility. The fable prefents us an image of that
ftupor which Efchylusdefcribes as feizingthe daughters of
Niobe when they were transformed into a rock. The o-
ther monument referred to is the image of Laocoon, which
exhibits the moft agonizing pain that can affeft the
mufcles, the nerves, and the veins. The fufterings of
the body and the elevation of the foul are expreffed in
every member with equal energy, and form the mod
fublime contraft imaginable. Laocoon appears to fuf-
fer with fuch fortitude, that, whilft Iris lamentable fitu-
ation pierces the heart, the whole figure fills us with an
ambitious defire of imitating his conftancy and magna¬
nimity in the pains and fuffeiings that may fall to our
lot.
Philoftetes is introduced by the poets (bedding tears,
uttering complaints, and rending the air with his groans
and cries; but the artift exhibits him filent and bear¬
ing his pains with dignity. The Ajax of the celebra¬
ted painter Timomachus is not drawn in the aft of de-
ftroying the (beep which he took for the Grecian chiefs,
but in the moments of refleftion which fucceeded that
frenzy. So far did the Greeks carry their love of
calmnefs and (low movements, that they thought a
quick ftep always announced rufticity of manners. De-
mofthenes reproaches Nicobulus for this very thing j
and from the words he makes ufe of, it appears, that to
fpeak with infolence and to walk haftily were reckoned
fynonymous. ^
In the figures of women, the artifts have conformed1:1 ft»e fta-
to the principle obferved in all the ancient tragedies, andtues of
recommended by Ariftolle, never to make women (how "0me11*
too much intrepidity or exceffive cruelty. Conforma¬
ble to this maxim, Clytemneftra is reprefented at a little
diftance from the fatal fpot, watching the murderer, but
without taking any part with him. In a painting of
Timomachus reprefenting Medea and her children,
when Medea lifts up the dagger they fmile in her face,
and her fury is immediately melted into compaffion for
the innocent viftims. In another reprefentation of the
fame fubjeft, Medea appears hefitaling and indecifive.
Guided by the fame maxims, the artifts of moft refined
tafte were careful to avoid all deformity, choofing rather
to recede from truth than from their accuftomed refpeft:
for beauty, as may be feen in feveral figures of Hecuba.
Sometimes, however, (he appears in the decrepitude of
age, her face furrowed with wrinkles, and her breads
hanging down. ^
Illuftrious men, and thofe invefted with the offices oH11 the ffa-
dignity, are reprefented with a noble affurance and firmtues t^e
afpeft. The ftatues of the Roman emperors refemble^er"^n
thofe of heroes, and are far removed from every fpecies
of flattery, in the gefture, in the attitude, and aftion.
They never appear with haughty looks, or with the
fplendor of royalty ; no figure is eyer feen prefenting
any thing to them with bended knee, except captives ;
and none addrcffcs them with an inclination of the head.
In
59
46
Of propor¬
tions.
SCULPT UR E.
In modern works too little attention has been paid to
the ancient cojlume. Winkelman mentions a bas-relief,
which was lately executed at Rome for the fountain of
Trevi, reprefenting an architcdl in the act of prefenting
the plan of an aquedudt to Marcus Agrippa. I he mo¬
dern fculptor, not content with giving a long beard to
that illuftrious Roman, contrary to all the ancient mar¬
ble ftatues as well as medals which remain, exhibits the
architedf on his knees.
In general, it was an eftablifned principle to banilh all
violent paffions from public monuments. This will
ferve as a decifive mark to diftinguifh the true antique
from fuppofititious works. A medal has been found
exhibiting two Aflyrians, a man and woman tearing
their hair, with this infcription, Assyria, et. ta-
EAESTINA. IN. POTEST. P. R. REDAC. S. C. The for¬
gery of this medal is manifeft from the word Palaefti-
tia, which is not to be found in any ancient Roman me¬
dal with a Latin infcription. Befides, the violent ac¬
tion of tearing the hair does not fuit any fymbolical
figure. This extravagant ftyle, which was called by the
ancients parenthyrfis, has been imitated by moil: of the
modern artills. Their figures refemble comedians on the
ancient theatres, who, in order to fuit the diftant fpec-
tators, put on painted mafks, employed exaggerated
geilures, and far overleaped the bounds of nature. This
flyle has been reduced into a theory in a treatife on the
paliions compofed by Le Brim. The defigns which ac¬
company that work exhibit the paffions in the very
higheft degree, approaching even to frenzy : but thefe
are calculated to vitiate the tafle, efpecially of the
young", for the ardour of youth prompts them rather to
feize the extremity than the middle ", and it will be dif¬
ficult for that artifl who has formed his taile from fuch
empaffioned models ever to acquire that noble fimplicity
and fedate grandeur which diltinguilhed the works of
ancient tafte.
Proportion is the bafis of beauty, and there can
be no beauty without it on the contrary, proportion
may exilt where there is little beauty. Experience
every day teaches us that knowledge is diftintfl from
tafte ; and proportion, therefore, which is founded on
knowledge, may be ftridlly obferved in any figure, and
yet the figure have no pretenfions to beauty. The an¬
cients confideving ideal beauty as the moft perfeft,
have frequently employed it in preference to the beauty
of nature.
The body confifts of three parts as well as the mem¬
bers. The three parts of the body are the trunk, the
thighs, and the legs. The inferior parts of the body
are the thighs, the legs, and the feet. The arms alfo
confift of three parts. Thefe three parts muft bear a
certain proportion to the whole as well as to one an¬
other. In a well formed man the head and body muft
be proportioned to the thighs, the legs, and the feet, in
the fame manner as the thighs are proportioned to the
legs and the feet, or the arms to the hands. The face
alfo confifts of three parts, that is, three times the length
of t he nofe •, but the head is not four times the length of
the nofc, as fome writers have afterted. From the place
where the hair begins to the crown of the head are only
three-fourths of the length of the nofe, or that part is to
the nofe as 9 to 12.
It is probable that the Grecian, as well as Egyptian
artifts, have determined the great and fmall proportions
by fixed rules 5 that they have eftablilhed a pofitive
meafure for the dimenfions of length, breadth, and cir¬
cumference. This fuppofition alone can enable us to
account for the great conformity which we meet with
in ancient ftatues. Winkelman thinks that the foot was
the meafure which the ancients ufed in all their great
dimenfions, and that it 'was by the length of it that
they regulated the meafure of their figures, by giving
to them fix times that length. This in fadt is the
length which Vitruvius affigns, Pcs vero altiludinis cor¬
poris fextee, lib. iii. cap. 1. That celebrated antiquary
thinks the foot is a more determinate meafure than the
head or the face, the parts from which modern painters
and fculptors too often take their proportions. This pro-
portiois of the foot to the body, which has appeared
ftrange and incomprehenfible to the learned Huetius, and
has been entirely rejedted by Perrault, is however found¬
ed upon experience. After meafuring with great care
a vaft number of figures, Winkelman found this pro¬
portion obferved not only in Egyptian ftatues, but alfo
in thofe of Greece. This fact may be determined by
an infpedtion of thofe ftatues the feet of which are per¬
fect. One may be fully convinced of it by examining
fome divine figures, in which the ar.tifts have made
fome parts beyond their natural dimenfions. In the
Apollo Belvidere, which is a little mere than feven
heads high, the foot is three Roman inches longer than
the head. The head of the Venus de Medicis is very
fmall, and the height of the ftatue is feven heads and a
half : the foot is three inches and a half longer than the
head, or precifely the fixth part of the length of the
whole ftatue.
Practice of Sculpture.
VtE have been thus minute in our account of thscsrcfan
Grecian fculpture, becaufe it is the opinion of the ableftfcuipture
critics that modern artifts have been more or lefs emi-tobeftu-
nent as they have ftudied with the greater or lefs atten-c*]ecl by ‘he
tion the models left us by that ingenious people : 11 ar"
Wfinkelman goes fo far as to contend that the moft fi-' 1 “
niffied wrorks of the Grecian mafters ought to be ftudied
in preference even to the works of nature. This ap¬
pears to be paradoxical; but the reafon affigned by the
Abbe for his opinion is, that the faireft fines of beauty
are more eafily difeovered, and make a more ftriking
and powerful impreffion, by their reunion in thefe fub-
lime copies, than when they are fcattered far and wide
in the original. Allowing, therefore, the ftudy of na¬
ture the high degree of merit it fo juftly claims, it muft
neverthelefs be granted, tha*- it leads to true beauty by
a much more tedious, laborious, and difficult path, than
the ftudy of the antique, which prefents immediately to
the artift’s view the objedt of his refearches, and com¬
bines in a clear and ftrong point of light the various
rays of beauty that are difperfed through the wide do¬
main of nature.
As foon as the artift has laid this excellent founda¬
tion, acquired an intimate degree of familiarity with the
beauties of the Grecian ftatues, and formed his tafte af¬
ter the admirable models they exhibit, he may then pro¬
ceed with advantage and afiurance to the imitation of
nature. The ideas he has already formed of the perfec¬
tion of nature, by obferving her difperfed beauties com¬
bined and colletfted in the compofitions of the ancient
K 2 aftifts,
6o SCULP
artifts, will enable him to acquire with facility, and to
employ with advantage, the detached and partial ideas
of beauty which will be exhibited to his view in a liir-
vey of nature in her a&ual date. When he difcovers
thefe partial beauties, he will be capable of combining
them with thofe perfect forms of beauty with which
he is already acquainted. In a word, by having always
prefent to his mind the noble models already mentioned,
he will be in fome meafure his own oracle, and will draw
rules from his own mind.
Two ways ^ere are> however, two ways of imitating nature,
ftfimita- in the one a Angle objedt occupies the artift, wjho en-
ting na- deavours to reprefent it with precifion and truth ^ in
taie* the other, certain lines and features are taken from a
variety of objects, and combined and blended into one
regular whole. All kinds of copies belong to the firlt
kind of imitation ; and produftions of this kind muft
be executed neceflarily in the Dutch manner, that is to
lay, with high finifhing, and little or no invention. But
the lecond kind of imitation leads diredlly to the invefti-
gation and difcovery of tru» beauty, of that beauty
whofe idea is connate with the human mind, and is only
to be found there in its higheft perfection. This is
the kind of imitation in which the Greeks excelled, and
in which men of genius excite the young artifts to ex¬
cell after their example, vi*. by ftudying nature as they
did.
After having ftudied in the productions of the Gre¬
cian mafters their choice and expreflion of feleCt na¬
ture, their fublime and graceful contours, their noble
draperies, together with that fedate grandeur and ad¬
mirable limplicity that conftitute their chief merit, the
curious artifts will do well to ftudy the manual and me¬
chanical part of their operation?, as this is abfolutely
neceffary to the fuccefsful imitation of their excellent
49 manner.
Models of It is certain that the ancients almoft always formed
ftatues. mcxlels in wax ; to this modern artifts have
fubftituted clay, or fome Inch compofttion : they prefer
day before vrax in the carnations, on account of the
yielding nature of the latter, and its {ticking in fome
meafure to every thing it touches. We muft not, how¬
ever, imagine from hence that the method of forming
models of wet clay was either unknowm or negleCled
among the Greeks ; on the contrary, it was in Greece
that models of this kind w^ere invented. Their author
was Dibutades of Sicyon ; and it is well known that
Arcefilas, the friend of Lucullus, obtained a higher de¬
gree of reputation by his clay models than by all his
other productions. Indeed, if clay could be made to
pn fcrve its original moifture, it would undoubtedly be
the fitteft fubftance for the models of the fculptor j but
when it is placed either in the fire or left to dry im¬
perceptibly in the air, its folid parts grow more com-
paCt, and the figure lofing thus a part of its dimenfions,
is neceffarily reduced to a fmaller volume. This dimi-
nution would be of no confequence did it equally aiteCI
the ivhole figure, fo as to prelerve its proportions en¬
tire. But this is not the cafe: for the fmaller parts
of the figure dry fooner than the larger; and thus lofing
more of their dimenfions in the fame fpace of time than
the latter do. the fymmetry and proportions of the figure
inevitably fuffer. This inconveniency does not take
place in thofe models that are made in wax. It is in¬
deed extremely difficult, in the ordinary method of
T U R E.
working the wax, to give it that degree of fmoothnefs
that is neceffary to reprefent the foftnefs of the carnations
or fleftiy parts of the body. This inconvenience may,
however, be remedied, by forming the model firft in
clay, then moulding it in plafter, and laftly calling it
in wax. And, indeed, clay is feldom ufed but as a
mould in which to caft a figure of plafter, ftucco, or
wax, to ferve henceforth for a model by which the
meafures and proportions of the ftatue are to be ad-
jufted. In making waxen models, it is common to
put half a pound of colophony to a pound of wax ;
and fome add turpentine, melting the whole wdth oil of
olives.
So much for the firft or preparatory fteps in this j 0j-
procedure. It remains to confider the manner of work-working
ing the marble after the model fo prepared 5 and the the mar-
method here followed by the Greeks feems to haveble’and
been extremely different from that which is generally
cbferved by modern artifts. In the ancient ftatues
we find the moft ftriking proofs of the freedom and
boldnefs that accompanied each ftroke of the chifel,
and which refulted from the artift’s being perfedlly
fure of the accuracy of Ins idea, and the precifion and
fteadinefs of his hand : the moft minute parts of the
figure carry thefe marks of affurance and freedom ;
no indication of timoroufnefs or diffidence appears j no¬
thing that can induce us to fancy that the artift had
occafion to correft any of his ftrokes. It is difficult to
find, even in the fecond-rate productions of the Gre¬
cian artifts, any mark of a falfe ftroke or a random
touch. This firmnefs and precifion of the Grecian chi¬
fel were certainly derived from a more determined and
perfect fet of rules than thofe which are obfervedin mo¬
dern times.
The method generally obferved by the modern fculp-
tor is as follows : Firft, out of a great block of marble
he faws another of the fize required, which is perform¬
ed with a fmooth fteel faw, without teeth, calling water
and fand thereon from time to time ; then he faffiions
it, by taking off what is fuperfluous with a fteel point
and a heavy hammer of foft iron ; after this, bringing
it near the meafure required, he reduces it ftill nearer
with another finer point} he then ufes a flat cutting
inftrument, having notches in its edge j and then a
chifel to take off the fcratches which the former has
left; till, at length, taking rafps of different degrees of
finenefs, by degrees he brings his work into a condition
for polifhing.
After this, having ftudied his model with all poffiblc
attention, he draws upon this model horizontal and per¬
pendicular lines which interfefl each other at right
angles. He afterwards copies thefe lines upon his
marble, as the painter makes ufe of fuch tranfverfal
lines to copy a picture, or to reduce it to a fmaller fize,
Thefe tranfverfal lines or fquares, drawn in an equal
number upon the marble and upon the model, in a man¬
ner proportioned to their refpeCtive dimenfions, exhibit
accurate meafures of the furfaces upon which the artift
is to work •, but cannot determine, with equal precifion,
the depths that are proportioned to thefe furfaces.—-
The fculptor, indeed, may determine thefe depths by
obferving the relation they bear to his model 5 but as
his eye is the only guide he has to follow in this efti-
mate, he is always more or lefs expofed to error, or at
leaft to doubt. He is never fure that the cavities made
*>7
SCULP
Iby his chifel are exaft j a degree of uncertainty accom¬
panies each ftroke j nor can he be affured that it has
carried away neither too much nor too little of his mar¬
ble. It is equally difficult to determine, by fuch lines
as have already been mentioned, the external and inter¬
nal contours of the figure, or to transfer them from the
model to the marble. By the internal contour is un-
derftood that which is delcribed by the parts which ap¬
proach towards the centre, and which are not marked in
a ftriking manner.
It is farther to be noticed, that in a complicated and
laborious work, which an artiif cannot execute without
affiftance, he is often obliged to make ufe of foreign
hands, that have not the talents or dexterity that are
neceffary to finiffi his plan. A fingle ftroke of the chifel
that goes too deep is a defeft not to be repaired ; and
fuch a ftroke may eafily happen, where the depths are
fo imperfeftly determined. Defeats of this kind are
inevitable, if the fculptor, in chipping his marble, begins
by forming the depths that are requifite in the figure he
defigns to reprefent. Nothing is more liable to error
than this manner of proceeding. The cautious artift
ought, on the contrary, to form thefe depths gradually,
by little and little, with the utmoft circumfpeftion and
care 5 and the determining of them with precifion ought
to be confidered as the laft part of his work, and as the
-! finiftu'ng touches of his chifel.
of copying The various inconveniences attending this method
ancient fta- determined feveral eminent artifts to look out for one
tues. wou}j foe fia^le to lefs uncertainty, and productive
of fewer errors. The French academy of painting at
Rome hit on a method of copying the ancient ftatues,
which fome fculptors have employed with fuccefs, even
in the figures which they finithed after models in clay or
wax. This method is as follows. The ftatue that is
to be copied is inclofed in a frame that fils it exaftly.
The upper part of this frame is divided into a certain
number of equal parts, and to each of thefe parts a
thread is fixed with a piece of lead at the end of it.
TURK. , 6k
Thefe threads, which hang freely, (how what parts of
the ftatue are moft removed from the centre with much
more perfpicuity and precifion than the lines which are
drawn on its furface, and which pafs equally over the
higher and hollow parts of the block : they alfo give the
artift a tolerable rule to meafure the more ftriking varia¬
tions of height and depth, and thus render him more
bold and determined in the execution of his plan.
But even this method is not without its defeCls : for
as it is impoffible, by the means of a ftraight line, to
determine with precifion the procedure of a curve, the
artift has, in this method, no certain rule to guide him
in his contours ; and as often as the line w'hich he is to
defcribe deviates from the direftion of the plumb line,
why^h is his main guide, he muft neceffarily feel himfelf
at a lofs, and be obliged to have recourfe to conjecture.
It is alfo evident, that this method affords no certain
rule to determine exadlly the proportion which the va¬
rious parts of the figure ought to bear to each other,
confidered in their mutual relation and connections.
The artift, indeed, endeavours to fupply this defeCt by
interfeCting the plumb-lines by horizontal ones. This
recourfe has, neverthelefs, its inconveniences, fince the
fquares formed by tranfverfal lines, that are at a diftance
from the figure (though they be exaftly equal), yet re¬
prefent the parts of the figure as greater or (mailer, ac¬
cording as they are more or lefs removed from our pofi-
tion or point of view. But, notwithftanding thefe in¬
conveniences, the method now under confideration is
certainly the beft that has hitherto been employed : it
is more practicable and lure than any other we know,
though it appears, from the remarks we have now been
making, that it does not exhibit a fure and univerfal cri¬
terion to a fculptor wdro executes after a model. ^
To poliih the ftatue, or make the parts of it fmooth Of polifu*-
and (leek, pumice-ftone and fmelt areufed; then tripoli •, ingthe
and when a (till greater luftre is required, burnt draw is^atue>
employed. For the Cqjling of Statues, fee FoundERY,
and Plaster of Paris.
s c u
Scutn, SCUM, properly denotes the impurities which a
Scurvy, liquor, by boiling, calls up to the furface. The term
is allb ufed for what is more properly called the
fcor’a of metals.
SCUPPF.RS, in a (hip, are certain channels cut
through the water-ways and fides of a (hip, at proper
diftances, and lined with plated lead, in order to carry
the wrater off from the deck into the fea. The fcuppcrs
of the lower deck of a (hip of war are ufually furniffied
v-uh a leathern pipe, called the fcupper-hofe, which
1 .mgs downward from the mouth or opening of the
frupper. The intent of this is to prevent the water
from entering when the (hip inclines under a weight of
fail.
SCURVY, in Medicine, fee that article, N° 351,
where we have given an account of the fymptoms,
caufes, and modes of prevention and cure, according to
fome of the moft eminent writers in medicine. We have
here only to add, that, in the opinion of Dr Beddoes,
the mineral acids, efpecially the nitric and vitriolic, may
s c u
be employed in the prevention or cure of this dreadful Scurvy
difeafe with as much fuccefs as the vegetable acids.— SI
But of all the fubftances that can at once be cheaply , s"ute‘ i
procured and long preferved, he thinks the concrete acid
of tartar by far the moft promifing. It is very grateful,
and comes near to the citric acid. In tropical countries
the fcurvy is feldom known.
SCURVT-Grafs. See Cochlearea, Botany Index.
SCUTAGF. (fcutagiurn, Sax. fcildpeningf was a
tax or contribution raifed by thofe that held lands by
knights fervice, towards furniihing the king’s army, at
one, two, or three merks for every knight’s fee. Hen¬
ry III. for his voyage to the Holy Land, had a tenth
granted by the clergy, and fcutage, three merks of every
knight’s fee by the laity. This was alfo levied by Hen¬
ry II. Richard I. and King John. See KNIGHT-Service.
SCUFF (fcutum), a French gold coin of 3s. qffi in
the reign of King Henry V. Catharine queen of Eng¬
land had an affurance made her of fundry caftles,
manors, lands, &c. valued at the fum of 40,000 /cutes,
every
Scytala
S C Y [ 62
Scutellaria every Itvo whereof were worth a noble. Rot. Par/. 1.
Hen. VI.
SCUTELLARIA, Skull-cap, a genus of plants,
belonging to the didynamsa clafs ; and in the natural
method ranking under the 40th order, Perfonatrv. See
Botany Index.
SCUTTLES, in a fliip, fuLuare holes cut in the deck,
big enough to let down the body of a man, and which
ferve upon lome occahons to let the people down into
any room below, or from one' deck to another.
SCYLAX, a celebrated mathematician and geogra¬
pher of Caria, flouriihed under the reign of Darius Hyf-
tafpes, about 558 B. C. Some have attributed to him
the invention of geographical tables. We have under
his name a geographical work publithed by Hoefchelius;
but it is written by a much later author, and is perhaps
only an abridgement 6f Scylax’s Ancient Geography.
SCYLLA, in Ancient Geography, a rock in the
Fretum Siculum, near the coaft of Italy, dangerous to
flapping, oppohte to Charybdis, a whirlpool on the coal!
of Sicily 5 both of them famous in mythology.
Suther- Scylla and Charybdis have been almoft" fubdued by
land's Tour the repeated convulfions of this part of the earth, and in
zip the
Straits,
Letter xh
by the violence of the current, which is continually in-
creafmg the breadth of the ftraits. If proper allowance
be made for thefe circumtfances, we (hall acquit the an¬
cients of any exaggeration, notwithdanding the very
dreadful colours in which they have painted this nafiage.
It is formed by a low peninlula, called Cape Pe/orus,
firetching to the ealhvard on the Sicilian fide, immedi¬
ately within which lies the famous whirlpool of Charyb¬
dis, and by the rocks of Scylla, which a few miles be¬
low on the Calabrian fhore projeft towards the weft.
1 he current runs with furprifing force from one to the
other alternately in the di reft ion of the tide, and the
tides themfelves are very irregular. Thus veffels, by
fhunning the one, were in the utmoft danger of being
fwallowed up by the other.
At prefent, in moderate weather, when the tide is
either at ebb or flood, boats pafs all over the whirlpool:
but, in general, it is like the meeting of two contending
currents, with a number of eddies all around ; and, even
now, there is fcarcely a winter in which there are not
feme wrecks.
“ At the time when we palled the flraits (fays Cap¬
tain Sutherland, from whom xve have obtained this ac¬
curate information) the weather was as favourable as
we could with ; and yet, in fpite of a ftrong breeze and
the current, which hurried us on with furpriling velo¬
city, the fhip’s head was fuddenly whirled round near
three points ; but the wind blowing frefh, in a few fe-
conds the daihed through the eddy that had caught her ;
for, to avoid Scylla, and fecure Medina, we had kept
pretty clofe to Charybdis.” For a later account of thefe
rocks, fee Sicily.
SCYROS, an ifland in the EEgean fea, at the di¬
llance of about 28 miles north-e a ft from Euboea. It is
60 miles in circumference. It was originally in the pof-
feftion of the Pelafgians and Carians. Achilles retired
there to avoid going to the Trojan war, and became fa¬
ther of Neoptolemus by Deidamia the daughter of King
Lyccmedes. Scyros was conquered by the Athenians
under Cimon. It was very rocky and barren. Now
Sciro. E. Long. 25. o. N. Lat. 38. 15.
SCYTALA LACONICA, in antiquity, a ftratagem or
4
] S C Y
. *
device of the Lacedemonians, for the fecret writing of
letters to their correfpondents, fo that if they ihould
chance to be intercepted, nobody might he able to read '
them.—To tnis end they had two wooden rollers or cy¬
linders, perfectly alike and equal; one whereof was
kept in the city, the other by the perfon to whom the
letter was direfted. For the letter, a fkin of very thin
parchment was wrapped round the roller, and thereon
was the matter written 5 which done, it was taken off,
and fent away to the party, who, upon putting it hi the
fame manner upon his roller, found the lines and words
in the very fame diipoiltion as when they were firft
written, i his expedient they let a very high value on ;
though, in truth, artlefs and grcls enough : the moderns
have improved vaftly on this method of writing. See
Cipher.
SCYTALIA, a genus of plants belonging to the
oftandria clafs ; and in the natural method ranking with
thofe that are doubtful. See Botany Index.
SCYTHE, in Hijbandnjp a well known inftrument
which has been long employed for cutting grafs for
hav. The fame inftrument with certain modifications
its conllruftion has been ufed in reaping grain, in
place of the fickle the ufe of which is far more common,
and in Scotland at leaft: prevails almoft univerfally, al¬
though it muft be admitted that the method of reaping
by the feythe, where it is practicable, is attended with
leis labour, is more expeditious, and therefore mere
economical. But againft the ufe of the feythe, as a
reaping inftrument, many objections have been raifed.
Some of thefe are probably founded in prejudice, while
others, confidering the flow progrefs which has been
made in introducing this inftrument as a fubftitute for
the fickle, reft on a more fo’id foundation.
It is laid that this inftrument (hakes the ear, fo that
many of the grains are loft ; that it lets the corn fall
after it is cut, in a fcattered confufed manner, in confe-i
quence of which either a great deal of it is loft, or
much time is wafted in gathering it together. It is al-
fo affirmed that it can only be made ufe of in very even
land, and which is free from ftones ; that it does not
leave length enough of ftubble on the ground, on which
to lay the corn when it is cut \ that it mixes noxious
weeds with tbe corn, the feeds of which are fown the
enfuing year *, and finally, that the life of the feythe is
prejudicial to the health of the reaper.
It appears, however, that thefe objeftions have either
no weight, or they are made by thofe who are unac¬
quainted with the feythes peculiarly adapted to this pur-
pofe, and with the manner in which they ought to be
ufed. With a good feythe properly managed, the
corn when cut, remains at firft upright, afterwards fal-
ling gently on the rake fixed to the feythe, without
any {baking or jolting, or at leaft with lefs than what
is occafioned by the fickle. The lofs of grain chiefly
arifes from the corn being too dry, and therefore it
ought to be reaped on proper days, and fuitable limes of
the day, which is more eafily accomplifhed by the fevthe
than the fickle, becaufe the one requires lefs time than
the other. The ftaiks, held together by the rake, may
be laid on the ground, or againft the corn not yet cut
down, in a ftate fo regular and connefted, that thofe by
whom the (heaves are collefted and bound have them¬
felves alone to blame, fhould any thing be left behind.
It is fufficiently even when lands are ploughed and har¬
rowed
Scytala,
Sen the.
1
S C Y [ 63 ] SC Y
Scythe, rowed in a proper manner 5 and the only necefTary pre-
caution in ftony ground, is to keep the fey the a little
higher, that it may not ftrike againft the Hones. If
the itubble be fhort, the It raw cut off will of courfe
be the longer, and of confequence more valuable j and
long ffubble only incommodes the cattle afterwards lent
to feed upon it.
Thefe and ffmilar confiderations, prevailed with the
patriotic fociety of Milan, to fend to thefe places where
feythes are ufed for reaping ; and having procured a
model from Silefia, they ordered one of a proper fize to
be made. It was firft tried on corn, and afterwards on
millet •, and notwithstanding the firff was far from be¬
ing made with accuracy, and although luch an inftru-
ment had never before been made ufe of by the reaper,
nearly half the ufual time was found to be faved, and
the wonted fatigue and labour were much diminilhed.
The corn was cut without receiving any injurious (hock,
falling in an even and regular Hate, by which means it
was afterwards bound up with eafe in compact (heaves.
Plate Thefe inffruments are fo ffmple in their conitruftion,
cccclxxvib. that a figure of one of them renders a defeription almoff
Fig. 1. unneccfiary. Fig. 1. reprefents the Silelian fey the tried
by the fociety, the difference between which and the
Authian one we ffiall mention in our defeription. The
Silelian fevthe differs little from that commonly employ¬
ed in mowing grafs, except that the blade is rather
fmaller ; to it four teeth of wood are added, parallel to
the blade, fixed and fecured in a proper manner, and
defigned to keep the corn together after it is cut 5 fo
that inftead of its falling in a confufed ftate, the reaper
can lay it down in a regular and ccmpafl manner. The
Auftrian feythe is fimilar to the former, but the blade
is larger ; of courfe the wooden teeth, being five in
number, are longer ; the handle is alfo flatter, and rather
crooked.
In the firff, the handle ab (fee fig. 1.) is four feet
three inches in length ; the blade is about two feet ;
the piece of wood in which the teeth are fixed, one foot
ten inches and a half. In the fecond, the handle is four
feet one inch ; the blade, two feet eight inches \ the
piece in which the teeth are fixed, 1inches.
’I"he difference in the conftruttion of thefe two feythes
renders it. neceffary to ufe them in a different manner,
which will be better acquired in pra&ice than by pre¬
cept. Such as are accuffomed to the ufe of the com¬
mon feythe will foon find out the moft advantageous
manner of ufing thefe new kinds of feythes, and of lay¬
ing down the corn properly after it is cut.
It is neceffary to obferve, that, in mowing grafs, the
feet are held in a pofition nearly parallel to each other,
whereas in reaping corn they ffiould be kept on a line,
the one behind the other, bringing the right foot for¬
ward, and drawing the left towards it. The reafon is,
that when grafs is mowed it is left to fall where it is
cut j but when corn is cut down, it is to be laid in a
proper manner againft that which is not yet cut, and
which is at the reaper’s left hand. Were tire feet kept
parallel to each other, the reaper would be under the
neceflity of extending and turning his body in a very in¬
convenient manner.
I hefe obfervations having been publifhed, the fociety
made farther expe.imenis on the fubjeft, by which they
difcoveved, that when the ftalks of corn are bent down
by realon of extremely wet weather, the wooden teeth
of the feythes are apt to lay hold of fome ears, to the Scythe,
ftalks ot which the iron does not extend 5 and therefore
thele not being cut below, are pulled fo that the grain
is fcattered. This chiefly happens from the reapers not
being accuftomed to that kind of feythe, and therefore
not knowing how to adapt it to particular exitting cir-
cumftances.
It occurred to an ingenious blackfmith, that, in or¬
der to remedy this inconvenience, a colleBor made of
cloth ftiould be added to the common Icythe, as may be
feen at fig. 2. where abc is a common feythe, cdmlofne Fig. 2.
is the gatherer, which at c d e is compofed of a thin
plate of iron, having a hollow at its extremity for re¬
ceiving the point of the blade. At c d are holes for
lewing in the cloth, which is coarfe, light, and of low
price 5 it is allb fixed to two thick iron wires, of which
the upper one is continued to/^ where it terminates in a
hole in the handle ; the other is fixed to the back of the
blade. The manner of fixing this gatherer to the back
of the feythe will be better underttood by referring to
fig. 3. which reprefents one of the irons which, byp;,r
means of the ferew, are faftened to the back of the
feythe. Thefe proceed from, and make part of the up¬
right irons m «, / 0, which ferve to keep the gatherer
extended.
This contrivance is both cheap and fimple ; but an
attempt was made to render it more fo, by fubflituting
two iron hoops for the gatherer, which are (hewn in
fig. 2. by the dotted lines h g, k 1, with a crofs piece />, 2*
which connedls them. Experience has (hewn, however, &
that the gatherer is in general preferable to thefe hoops,
as it does not leave an ear of corn behind.
SCYTHIA, an ancient name lor the northern parts
of Afia, now known by the name of Tavtary ; alio for
fome of the north-eaffern parts of Europe.
I his vaft territory, which extends itfelf from the Ifter
or Danube, the boundary of the Celts, that is, from
about the 25th to almoft the noth degree of eaft lon¬
gitude, was divided into Scythia in Europe and Scythia
in Afia, including, however, the two Sarmatias; or,
as they are called by the Greeks, Sauroniatias, now the
Circadian J artary, which lay between and levered the
two Scythias from each other. Sauromatia was alfo di-'
ffinguithed into European and Afiatic ; and was divided
from the European Scythia by the river Don or Tanais, .
which falls into the Palus Meotis ; and from the Afiatic
by the Elia, now Volga, which empties itfelf into the
Cafpian fea.
1. The Afiatic Scythia comprehended, in general,
great 1 artary, and Rudia in Alia j and, in particular,
the Scythia beyond or without Imaus, contained the re¬
gions of Bogdoi or Oftiacoi, and Tanguti. That within,
or on this fide Imaus, had Turkeftan and Mongal, the
U(heck or Zagatai, Kalmuc and Nagaian Tartars; be-
fides Siberia, the land of the Samoiedes, and Nova Zem-
blst. 'I hefe three iaft not being fo foon inhabited as the
former, as may be reafonably fuppofed, were wholly un¬
known to the ancients ; and the former were peopled by
the Baftrians, Sogdians, Gandari, Sacks, and Mafiagetes.
As for Sarmatia, it contained Albania, Iberia, and
Colchis; which makes now the Circadian Tartary, and
the province of Georgia.
2. Scytl ha in Europe reached (towards the flouth-
weft) to the Po and the Alps, by which it was divided
from Cclto-Gallia. It was bounded on the foulh by
the..
SEA
r 64 ]
SEA
Sea.
Srytbia tile Ifler or Danube and the Euxine Tea. Its northern
limits have been fuppofed to itretch to the fpring-heads
of the Borifthenes or Nieper, and the Rha or Volga, and
fo to that of the Tanais.—The ancients divided this
Country into Scythia Arimafpasa, which lay eattward,
joining to Scythia in Afia •, and Sarmatia Europeana
on the weft. In Scythia, properly fo called, '\ere the
Arimafpaei on the north ; the Get® or Dacians along
the Danube, on the fouth ; and the Neuri between
thefe two. So that it contained the European Ruflia
or Mufcovy, and the Leflfer Grim Tartary eaftward •,
and, on the weft, Lithuania, Poland, part of Hungary,
Tranfiivania, Walachia, Bulgaria, and Moldavia. Sar¬
matia is fuppofed to have reached northward to that
part of Swedeland called Feningia, now Finland; in
which they placed the Ocenes, Panoti, and Hippopodes.
This part they divided from Northern Germany, now
the weft part of Sweden and Norway, by the Mare
Sarmaticum or Scytkicum, which they fuppofed ran up
into the northern ocean, and, dividing Lapland into two
parts, formed the weftern part of Sweden, with Norway,
into one ifland, and Finland into another ; fuppofing this
alfo to be cut off from the continent by the gulf of
that name.
Although the ancient Scythians were celebrated as
a warlike people, yet their hiftory is too uncertain and
obfcure to enable us to give any detail which would not
prove equally tirefome and uninterefting to the reader.
Mr Pinkerton, in a diflertation on their origin, endeavours
to prove that they were the moft ancient of nations;
and he affigns for the place of their firft habitation the
country knowm by the name of Perfia. From Perfia,
he thinks, they proceeded in numerous hordes w’eftward,
fiirrounded the Euxine, peopled Germany, Italy, Gaul,
the countries bordering on the Baltic, with part of
Britain and Ireland. That the Scythians were of Afia-
txc origin cannot, we think, bequeftioned ; and as Perfia
was peopled at a very early period, it may not impro¬
bably have been their parent country : but when our
author contends that their empire had fubfifted for more
than 1 500 years before Ninus the founder of the Affy-
rian monarchy, and that it extended from Egypt to the
Ganges, and from the Perfian gulf and Indian fea to
the Cafpian, we cannot help thinking that his prejudices
againft the Celts, and his defire to do honour to his fa¬
vourite Goths, have made him advance a paradox incon-
liftent with the moft authentic records of antiquity. His
differtation however is ingenious, and replete with a va¬
riety of curious learning.
SCYTHIAN Lamb, in Natural Hi/lory. See Scythian
Lamb.
SCY S'HROPS or Channel bilx, a genus of birds
belonging to the order of Pkae. See Ornithology,
N° 149.
SEA, in a ftrift fenfe, fignifies a large portion of
water almoft furrounded by land, as the Baltic and
Mediterranean feas; but it is frequently ufed for that
vaft body of wate,r which encompaffes the whole earth.
What proportion the fuperficies of the fea bears to
portioiTthe that of the land cannot eafily be afcertained. Buffon has
fkrfaee of fuppofed that the furface of our globe is equally divided
between land and water, and has accordingly calculated
the fuperficies of the fea to be 85,490,506 fquare miles.
But it is now well known that the ocean covers much
more than the half of the earth’s furface. Buffou be-
3
Wlait pro-
the fea
feears to
that of tha
lioi
lieved the exiftence of a vaft fouthern continent, which Sea.
Captain Cook has fliown to be vifionary. It was this ■
circumft.mce wdiich milled him. According to the
moft accurate obfervations hitherto made, the furface of
the fea is to the land as three to one j the ocean therefore
extends over 128,235,759 fquare miles, fuppofing the
fuperficies of the w hole globe to be 170,981,012 Iquare 2
miles. To afeertain the depth of the lea is ftill more Depth of
difficult than its fuperficies, both on account of thefts tea-
numerous experiments which it would be neceffary to
make, and the w^ant of proper inftruments for that pur-
pofe. Beyond a certain depth the fea has hitherto
been found unfathomable •, and though feveral methods
have been contrived to obviate this difficulty, none of
them has completely anfwered the purpofe. We know
in general that the depth of the fea increafes gradually
as we leave the Ihore ; but if this continued beyond a
certain d.fiance, the depth in the middle of the ocean
wrould be prodigious. Indeed the numerous iflands
everyw’here fcattered in the fea demonftrate the con¬
trary, by fhowfing us that the bottom of the water is
unequal like the land, and that fo far from uniformly
finking, it fometimes rifes into lofty mountains. If the
depth of the fea be in proportion to the elevation of
the land, as has generally been fuppofed, its greateft
depth will not exceed five or fix miles, for there is no
mountain fix miles perpendicular above the level of the
fea. The fea has never been adlually founded to a
greater depth than a mile and 66 feet 5 every thing be¬
yond that therefore rells entirely upon conje6lure and
analogical reafoning, which ought never to be admitted
to determine a fingle point that can be afcertained by
experiment, becaufe, when admitted , they have too often
led to falfe conclufions. Along the coafts, where the
depth of the fea is in general well known, it has always
been found proportioned to the height of the ffiore :
when the coaft is high and mountainous, the fea that
wafhes it is deep ; when, on the contrary, the coaft is
low, the water is thallow. Whether this analogy holds
at a diftance from the fhore, experiments alone can de¬
termine. 3
To calculate the quantity of w-ater contained in the Quantitj-
fea, while its depth is unknown, is impoffible. But ifof water
we fuppofe with Buffon that its medium depth is thewflirVt
fourth part of a mile, the ocean, if its fuperficies bfr001-31115,
1 20,23 5,7 ^9 fquare miles, will contain 32,058,939.75
cubic miles of water.
Let us now' endeavour to compute the quantity of
water which is conftantly difeharged into the fea. For
this puroofe let us take a river whofe velocity and quan- ,
tity of w'ater is known, the Po, for inftance, which ac- x^orv of
cording to Riccioli is 1000 feet (or 100 perches of^ Earib,
Bologna) broad, 10 feet deep, and runs at the rate o^art. ic.
four miles in an hour ; confequently that river dif-
charges into the fea 200,000 cubic perches of water in
an hour, or 4,800,000 in a day. A cubic mile con¬
tains 12 $,000,000 cub e perches $ the Po therefore
will take 26 days to difeharge a cubic mile of water
into the fea. Let us now' fuppofe, wffiat is perhaps not
very far from the truth, that the quantity of water
which the fea receives from the rivers in any country is
proportioned to the extent of <ihat country. The Po
from its origin to its mouth traverfes a country 380
miles long, and the rivers which fall into it on every
fide rife from iources about fixty miles diftant from it.
The
SEA
[ 65 ]
SEA
4
Why it
does not
ixfcreafe.
'fheories
of philofo-i
phers on
this fub-
jecft.
Sea. The Po, therefore, and the rivers which it receives* wa-
•’“V—ter a country of 45,600 fquare miles. Now fince the
whole fuperficies of the dry land is about 42,745,253
fquare miles, it follows, from our fuppofition, that the
quantity of water difcharged by all the rivers in the
w’orld, in one day, is 36 cubic miles, and in a year
13,140. If therefore the fea contains 32,058,939 cubic
miles of water, it would take all the rivers in the world
2439 years to difcharge an equal quantity.
It may feem furprillng that the fea, fince it is con¬
tinually receiving fuch an immenfe fupply of water, does
not vifibly increafe, and at lafl: cover the whole earth.
But our furprife will ceafe, if we confider that the ri¬
vers themfelves are fupplied from the fea, and that they
do nothing more than carry back thole Waters which
the ocean is continually lavifliing on the earth. Dr
Halley has demonftrated that the vapours raifed from
the fea and tranfported on land are fufficient to main¬
tain all the rivers in the wmrld. The fimplicity of this
great procefs is aftonilhing : the fea not only Connefts
diflant countries, and renders it eafy to tranfport the
commodities of one nation to another, but its waters
riling in the air defcend in Ihowers to fertilize the earth
and nourilh the vegetable kingdom, and collefting into
rivers flow onwards, bringing fertility and wealth and
commerce along with them, and again return to the fea
to repeat the fame round.
The knowledge of this procefs of nature might, one
would think, have convinced philofophers that the pro¬
portion between fea and land continued always nearly
the fame. Philofophers however have formed different
theories about this as well as moll other fubjedls, main¬
taining on the one hand that the fea is continually
encroaching on the land, and on the other that the land
is conftantly gaining on the fea. Both fides have fup-
ported their theories by arguments, demonftrations, and
incontrovertible fafts !
The height of the mountains, fay the philofophers
who fupport the encroachments of the fea, is continual-
who affi™ ly diminilhing ; expofed to the violence of every ftorm,
is encroach- hardeft rocks mull at laft give way and tumble
in# on the down. The rivers are continually fweeping along with
land. them particles of earth which they depofite in the bot¬
tom of the fea. Both the depth of the ocean then and
the height of the dry land muft be always decreafing ;
the waters therefore muft, unlefs a part of them were
annihilated, fpread over a greater extent of furface in
proportion as thefe caufes operate. This reafoning,
convincing as it is, might be confirmed by a great
number of fafts : it will be fufficient however to men¬
tion one or two. In the reign of Auguftus the ifle of
Wight made a part of Britain, fo that the Englifh
crofted over to it at low water with cart loads of tin ;
yet that ifland is at prefent feparated from Britain by a
channel half a mile wide. The Godwin fands on the
eaftern fhore of England were formerly the fertile eftate
of earl Godwin. Nor are the encroachments of the
fea confined to Britain. In the bay of Bairn near Na¬
ples there are remains of houfes and ftreets ftill vifible
below the prefent level of the fea. The fea therefore
is making continued encroachment's upon the land ; and
the time will come, fay they, when the waters will again
cover the furface of the earth.
Such arc the arguments of thofe philofophers who
maintain the continual encroachments of the fea. Thofe
Vol. XIX. Part I.
Arguments
of thofe
who maintain the oppofite theory, that the land is gra- Sea.
dually gaining on the fea, though they pretend not to 1 v'
deny the fafts advanced by their opponents, affirm that Ar(yU^nent5
they are altogether infufficient to eftabliffi the hypo-0fthofe
thefis which they were brought forward to fupport. who affirm
Though the rivers carry down particles of earth into t^at
the fea, thefe, fay they, are either accumulated on other Iaa"^sr
fliores, or, collefting in the bottom of the ocean, hardenfhefea3.
into ftone, which being pofleffed of a vegetative power
rifes by degrees above the furface 'of the lea and forms
rocks, and mountains, and iflands. The vegetative na¬
ture of ftone indeed is lufficient, of iffelf, to convince
us that the quantity of earth muft be daily accumula¬
ting, and confequently that the furface of the fea is di-
minifliing in extent. Celfius, a Swedifh philofopher
(for this difpute has been carried on in Sweden, with
the greateft keennefs), has endeavoured to build this
theory with more folid materials than vegetable ftone.
In a curious memoir, publiflred in 1743, he aflerts that
the Baltic and the Atlantic, at lenft that part of it which
waffies Norway, is conftantly diminiffiing; and he proves
this by the teftimony of a great many aged pilots and
filhermen, who affirmed that the fea was become much
ffiallower in many places than it had been during their
youth : that many rocks formerly covered with water
were now feveral feet above the furface of the fea: that
loaded veflels ufed formerly to ride in many places where
pinnaces and barks could now wfith difficulty fwim.
He produces inftances of ancient fea-port towns now
feveral leagues from the ffiore, and of anchors and
wrrecks of veflels found far wffihin the country. He
mentions a particular rock which 168 years before was
at the bottom of the fea, but was then raifed eight feet
above its furface. In another place where the water
50 years before had reached to the knee there was then
none. Several rocks, too, which during the infancy of
feme old pilots had been two feet under water, were
then three feet above it. From all thefe obfervations
M. Celfius concludes, that the water of the Baltic de-
creafes in height 4^ lines in a year, 4 inches 5 lines in
18 years, 4 feet 5 inches in a hundred years, and in a
thoufand years 45 feet. Confcious, however, that thefe
fafts, how conclufive foever as far as relates to the Bal¬
tic, can never determine the general queftion, M. Celfius
advances another argument in fupport of his theory.
All that quantity of moifture, fays he, wffiich is imbibed
by plants is loft to the general mafs of water, being con¬
verted into earth by die putrefaftion of vegetables.
This notion had been mentioned by Newton, and wa*
adopted by Van Helmont: if granted, it follows as a
confequence that the earth is continually increafing and
the water diminiftiing in a very rapid degree. g
Such are the arguments advanced in fupport of both Thefe Ir-
theories ; far it is needlefs to mention a notion of Lin- guments ■
naeus that the whole earth was formerly covered withexamine^
water except a fingle mountain. When fairly weighed,
they amount to nothing more than this, that the fea
has encroached upon the land in feme places, and reti¬
red in others; a conclulion which wre are very willing
to allow. What was advanced by thofe philofephers
who maintain that the fea is continually encroaching
on the land, about the depth of the fea conftantly di¬
miniftiing, muft remain a mere aiTertion till they prove
by experiments, either that this is really the cafe, or
that nature has no way of reftoring thofe particles of
I earth
SEA [ 66 ] S E A
, ^ea- earth which are wailied down by the rivers. Nor have
they any good reafon to affirm that the height of the
mountains is decreafing. Can a frngle uncontrovertible
inftance be produced of this ? Are the Alps or the Apen¬
nines, or Taurus, or Caucafus, lefs lofty now than they
were a thoufand years ago ? We mean not to deny that
the rain adlually wafhes down particles of earth from
the mountains, nor to affirm that the hardeft rocks are
able to refill continual llorms, nor that many mountains
have fuffered, and continue to fuffer daily, from a thou¬
fand accidents. But the effecfs produced by all tbefe
caufes are fo trifling as to be altogether impercepti¬
ble (a). Nature has affiduoufly guarded agaioft fuch
accidents j ffie,has formed the mountains of the moll
durable materials 5 and where they are covered with
earth, ffie has bound it together by a thick and firm
matting of grafs, and thus fecured it from the rains ;
and ffiould accident deprive it of this covering, Hie takes
care immediately to fupply the defedt. Even ffiould
the earth be fwept away together with its covering, na¬
ture has Hill fuch refources left as frequently rellore
things to their former Hate. Many kinds of mofs, one
would be tempted to think, have been created for this
very purpofe : they take root and flourifh almoft upon
the bare rock, and furniffi as they decay a fufficient bed
for feveral of the hardy Alpine plants. Thefe periffi
in their turn, and others fucceed them. The roots of
the plants bind fall the earth as it accumulates, more
plants fpring up and fpread wider, till by degrees the
^ whole furface is covered wdth a firm coat of grafs.
Bottom cf As the fca covefs fo great a portion of the globe, we
the fea, ffiould, no doubt, by exploring its bottom, difeover a
vail number of interefting particulars. Unfortunately
in the greater part of the ocean this has hitherto been
impoffible. Part, however, has been examined •, and the
difeoveries which this examination has produced may
enable us to form fome idea at leaf! of the whole. The
bottom of the fea^ as might have been conje£lttred in¬
deed beforehand, bears a great refemblance to the ffir-
face of the dry land, being, like it, full of plains, rocks,
caverns and mountains; fome of which are abrupt and
almoll perpendicular, while others rife with a gentle de¬
clivity, and fometimes tower above the water and form
ifiands. Neither do the materials differ which compofe
the bottom of the fea and the bafis of the dry land. If
we dig to a confiderable depth in any part of the earth,
we uniformly meet with rock ; the fame thing holds in
the fea. The flrata, too, are of the fame kind, difpo-
fed in the fame manner, and form indeed but one whole.
The fame kind of mineral and bituminous fubftances
are alfo found interfperfed with thefe flrata ; and it is
to them probably that the fea is indebted for its bitter
tafle. Over thefe natural and original ftrata an artifi¬
cial bed has pretty generally been formed, compofed of
different materials in different places. It confifls fre¬
quently of muddy tartareous fubflances firmly cemented
together, fometimes of fliells or coral reduced to pow- Spa¬
der, and near the mouths of rivers it is generally com-
pofed of fine fand or gravel. The bottom of the fea
refembles the ItPnd likewife in another particular : many
frefli fprings and even rivers rife out of it, which, dil-
placing the fait water, render the lower part of the fea
wherever they abound quite frelh. An inftance of this
kind occurs near Goa on the weftern coaft of Indo-
flan *, and another f in the Mediterranean fea not far * Boy/c de
from Marfeilles. Thefe facls occafloned a notion, which t'undo Ma-
later experiments have exploded, that the fea beyond a r,is'T r
certain depth was always freffi. ^
bubitances oi a very beautiful appearance are fre- Pkyfique de
quently brought up by the founding line from the bot- ici Mer,
tom of the fea. ihe plummet is hollowed below, and l5*11116 11
this cavity filled with tallow, to which fome of the fub¬
ftances adhere which form the bed of the ocean. Thtfe
are generally fand, gravel, or mud ; hut they are fome-
times of the brighteft fcarlet, vermilion, purple, and
yellow j and fometimes, though lefs frequently, they are
blue, green, or white. Thefe colours are owing to a
kind of jelly which envelopes the fubftances, and va-
nifh entirely as foon as this jelly dries. At times, how¬
ever, they affume the appearance of tartareous crufts,
and are then fo permanent, that they can be received
into white wax melted and poured round them, and
perhaps by proper care might be converted into valuable
Pa”lts- . 10 ;
Sea-water is really, aS any one may convince himfelf Colour of’
by pouring it into a glafs, as clear and tranfparent as t‘'e le‘1,
river water. The various appearances therefore which
it. affumes are owing to accidental caufes, and not to any
change in the water itfelf. The depth, or the materials
which compofe the bottom of the fea, occafions it to
affume different colours in different places. The Ara¬
bian gulf, for inftance, is faid to be red from the co¬
lour of the fands which form its bed. The appearance
of the fea is affedfed too by the winds and the fun,
while the clouds that pafs over it communicate all their
various and fleeting colours. When the fun ftiines it
is green ; when the fun gleams through a fog it is yel¬
low; near the north pole it appears black; while in
the torrid zone its colour is often brown. Sometimes
the fea affumes a luminous appearance. See Light,
Vol. XII. page 2. „
The fea contains the greateft quantity of fait in the Saltnek of
torrid zone, where otherwife from the exceffive heat A16 fe3,
it would be in danger of putreffidlion : as we advance
northward this quantity diminiffies, till at the pole it
nearly vanifhes altogether. Under the line Lucas fpund
that the fea contained a feventh part of folid contents,
confiding chiefly of fea-falt. At Harwich he found it
yielded ^y-th of fea-falt. At Carlfcroon in Sweden it
contains ^th part (b), and on the coafl of Greenland
a great deal lefs. This deficiency of fait near the poles
probably contributes a good deal towards the prodigi¬
ous
(a) M. Genfanne pretends that the Pyrenean mountains become an inch lower every ten years. But even ac¬
cording to his own calculation, it would require a million of years to level thefe mountains with the plain,
though they continued to decreafe at the fame rate; and philofophers tell us that this rate is conftantly di-
miniftiing !
(b) This gradual diminution of faltnefs from the equator to the pole is not', ’however, without particular excep¬
tions. The Mediterranean fea containjs ^th of fea-falt, which is lefs than the German fea contains.
b
E A
[ 67 1
SEA
Sea.
ous quantities of ice which are met with in thefe feas •,
for fait water requires a much greater degree of cold
to freeze it than fiefh water. It was this circumftance,
probably, together with its conftant motion, which in¬
duced the ancients to believe that the fea never froze.
Even among the moderns it has been a generally re¬
ceived opinion, that fea-ice is originally formed in ri¬
vers. Buffon has made the great quantities of ice
with which the South fea abounds an argument for the
exiftence of a continent near the Antarctic poie.. But
it is now well known that great quantities of ice a.e
formed at a diftance from land. Sea-ice is of two kinds j
field ice, which extends along the there, and is only two
or three feet thick •, and mountain ice, which abounds
in the middle of the ocean. The fize of thefe moun¬
tains is fometimes prodigious. I he fea-ice is always
frefh, and has been often of great ufe to navigators.
The weight of fea-water is to that of river-water as 73
to 70 ; that is, a cubic foot of fea-water weighs 731b.
while the fame quantity of river-water weighs only 701b. 5
but this proportion varies in different places. It is
worthy, of our attention, too, that the water at the fur-
face of the fea contains lefs fait than near the bottom j
the difference indeed is inconfiderable, but ftill it is
fomething. The Compte de Marfigli found the fame
quantity of water, when taken from the bottom of the
Mediterranean, to weigh one ounce three^ penny weights
51 grains j whereas from the furface it weighed only one
ounce three pennyweights qq grains. He repeated the
experiment frequently with nearly the fame refult.
The fea, with refpefl to temperature, may be divided
into two regions: The iirft begins at the furface of the
water, and defeends as far as the influence of the fun’s
ravs ; the fecond reaches from thence to the bottom of
the fea. In fummer the lower region is confiderably
  colder than the upper ; but it is probable that during
Regionum winter the very reverfe takes place ; at lead, the Compte
Sub marina- ^ found it fo repeatedly in the Mediterranean.
rum. T]lis naturally refults from the filuation of the water
near the bottom of the fea. Uninfluenced by the chan¬
ges in the atmofpbere, it retains always nearly the fame
degree of temperature : and this is confiderably above
congelation •, for the lower region of the fea, at lead: in
the temperate parts of the world, was never known to
_ pfreeze. " Captain Ellis let down a fea-gage (fee Gage)
for'1571, in latitude 25°i3/ north, and longitude 2 50 12'weft,
to take the degrees of temperature and faltnefs of the
fea at different "depths. It defeended 5346 feet, which
is a mile and eleven fathoms, tie found the fea falter
and colder in proportion to its depth till the gage had
defeended 3900 feet, when the mercury in the thermo¬
meter came up at 53 •, but the water never grew colder,
though he let down the gage 2446 feet lower. At the
furface the thermometer flood at 84.
The fea has three kinds of motion: 1. The firft is
that undulation which is occafioned by the wind. This
motion is entirely confined to the furface •, the bottom
even during the moft violent (forms remains perfectly
calm. Mf Boyle has remarked, from the teftimony of
feveral divers, that the fea is affetffed by tire winds
only to the depth of fix feet. It would follow from
this, that the height of the waves above the furface does
not exceed fix feet 5 and that this holds in the Mediter¬
ranean at leaft, we are informed by the Compte de Mar¬
figli, though he alfo fometimes obferved them, during
12
Tempera¬
ture of die
iea.
Boyle ile
Tcmpcrie
p. 213.
The fea
has three
motions.
Motion
occafioned
hy the
wind
a very violent tempeft, rife two feet higher. . It is ar- Si-a- t
firmed by Pliny, and feveral other ancient writers, that ^ “* ■
oil calms the waves of the fea; and that divers were by
cuftomed to carry fome of it for that purpofe in their oil.
mouths. This account was always confidered by the
moderns as a fable, and treated with fuch contempt, that
they did not even deign to put it to the teft of expe¬
riment, till Dr Franklin accidentally difeovered its
truth. Happening in 1757 to be in the middle of a
large fleet, he obferved that the water round one or two
veffels was quite calm and fmooth, while everywhere
elfe it was very much agitated by the winds. He ap¬
plied to the captain for an explanation of this phenome¬
non, who replied, that the cooks, he fuppofed, had
thrown their greafy water out at the fcupper-holes, and
by that means oiled the tides of the veffels in queftion.
This anfwer did not fatisfy the Doftor at firft ; but re-
collecling what Pliny ha-d faid on the fubjeift, be retol-
ved at leaft to make the experiment. He did fo accord¬
ingly in 1762, and found that oil actually calmed the
waves of the fea. He repeated the experiment upon a
pond at Clapham : the oil fpread itfelf with great rapidity
upon the furface, but did not produce the defired effect,
becaufe, having been thrown in upon the fide oppofite
to the wind, it was immediately driven to the. edge of
the water. But upon throwing in a like quantity upon
the other fide of the lake, it calmed in an inftant feve¬
ral yards of the furface ; and gradually fpreading, ren¬
dered all that part of the lake, to the extent of at leaft
half an acre, as fmooth as glafs. I he curious effect pro¬
duced by this liquid may be accounted for by the repul-
fion which exifts between oil and water, and between oil
and air, which prevents all immediate contaft, all rub¬
bing of the one upon the other. .
2. The fecond kind of motion is that continual ten-Motion to-
dency which the whole water in the fea has towards the wards the^
weft. It is greater near the equator than about the^~“Lu1'*
poles; and indeed cannot be (aid to take place at all in
the northern hemifphcre beyond the trophic. It begins
on the weft fide of America, where it is moderate :
hence that part of the ocean has been called Vacific.
As the waters advance weftward their motion is accele¬
rated ; fo that, after having traverfed the globe, they
ftrike with great violence on the eaftern fbore of Ame¬
rica. Being flopped by that continent, they turn north¬
ward, and run with confiderable impetuofity in* the
gulf of Mexico; from thence they proceed along the
coaft of North America, till they come to the fouth
fide of the great bank at Newfoundland, when they
turn off, and run down through the Weftern Ifles.
This current is called the Guff Stream. It was firft
accurately deferibed by Dr Franklin, who remarked
alfo, that the water in it having been originally heated
in the torrid zone, cools fo gradually in its pafiage
northward, that even the latitude might be found in
any part of the ftream by means of a thermometer —
This motion of the fea weftward has never been ex¬
plained : it feems to have lome connexion with the
trade-winds and the diurnal revolution of the earth on
its axis. _ iC
3. The third and moft remarkable motion of the fea.Motion ee¬
ls the tide, which is a regular fwell of the ocean once b/
every 12 hours, owing, as Newton has clemonfirated,1
to the attraction of the moon. In the middle of the
fea the tide feldom rifes higher than one or two feet,
I 2 but
Sea.
■Phil. Tranf.
17 So,
P* 354-
SEA [68
^ but on the coaft it frequently reaches the height of 45
J ^eet? and, in feme places even more. The tide ge¬
nerally rifes higher in the evening than in the morn¬
ing : on the coaft of Britain this holds in winter, but
m fummer the morning tides are higheft. In fome
reas it is iaid that there are no tides. I his cannot be
owing to their being furrounded by land, becaufe there
is a tide in the lakes of North America. For an ex¬
planation of thefe and other phenomena we refer to
the article Tide.
SEA-dir, that part of the atmofphere which is above
the fea.
Sea-air has been found falubrious and remarkably
beneficial in fome diftempers. This may be owing to
its containing a greater portion of oxigenous gas or vi¬
tal air, and being lefs impregnated with noxious vapours
than the land. Dr Ingenhoufz made feveral experi¬
ments to afeertain the lalubrity of fea-air. By mixing
equal meafures of common air and nitrous air, he found,
that at Gtavelend, they occupied about 104, oronemea-
fure and of a meafure : whereas on fea, about three
miles from the mouth of the Thames, two meafures of
air (one of common and one of nitrous air) occupied
irom 0.91 to 0.94. Fie attempted a fimilar experiment
on the middle of the channel between the Englilh coaft
and Oftend ; but the motion of the fhip rendered it im-
pradficable. He found that in rainy and windy weather
the fea-air contained a fmaller quantity of vital air than
when the rveather was calm. On the fea-fhore at Oftend
it occupied from 94^ to 97 ; at Bruges he found it at
105 ; and at Antwerp 1094. Dr Ingenhoufz thus con¬
cludes his paper:
It appears, from thefe experiments, that the air at
See Larus, Or- Sea.
fea and clofe to it is in general purer and fitter for ani¬
mal life than the air on the land, though it feems to be
fubjedl to the fame inconftancy in its degree of purity
with that of the land ; fo that wre may now with more
confidence fend our patients, labouring under confump-
tives diforders, to the fea, or at leaft to places fituated
clofe to the fea, which have no marlhes in their neigh¬
bourhood. It feems alfo probable, that the air will be
found in general much purer far from the land than near
the fhore, the former being never fubjeft to be mixed
with land air.
Dr Damman, an eminent phyfician and profeffor
royal of midwifery at Ghent, told Dr Ingenhoufz, that
when he was formerly a pra&itioner at Oftend, during
feven years, he found the people there remarkably heal¬
thy ; that nothing was rarer there than to fee a patient
labouring under a confumption or afthma, a malignant,
putrid, or fpotted fever j that the difeafe to which they
are the moft fubjeft, is a regular intermittent fever in au¬
tumn, when fudden tranfitions from hot to cold wea¬
ther happen.
People are in general very healthy at Gibraltar,
though there are very few trees near that place; which
Dr Ingenhoufz thinks is owing to the purity of the air
arifing from the neighbourhood of the fea.
Moft fmall iflands are very healthy.
At Malta people are little fubjedt to difeafes, and live
to a very advanced age.
SEA-Anemonij. See ylNlMAL- F/owcr.
SEA-Bear. 7 c 0 7
SEA-Caf | ,'ee H0CA> L Mammalia Index.
Sea-Cow. See Trichecus,J
] SEA
SEA-Crow, Mire-Crow, or Pewit.
NITHOLOGY Index.
Sea, Dead. See Asphaltites.
Sea-Devil. See Lophius, Ichthyology Index.
Sea-Dragon, a monfter of a very Angular nature. In
the Gentleman’s Magazine for the year 1749, we have
the account of a fea-dragon which was faid to be taken
between Orford and Southwould, on the coaft of Suf¬
folk, and afterwards carried round the country as a cu-
riofity by the filhermen who caught it.
“ Its head and tail (fays the writer) refemble thofe of
an alligator ; it has two large fins, which lerve it both
to fi\ im and to fly j and though they were fo dried that
I could not extend them, yet they appear, by the folds,
to be (haped like thole which painters have given to
dragons and other winged monfters that ferve as fuppor-
ters to coats of arms. Its body is covered with impene¬
trable feales; its legs have two joints, and its feet are
hoofed like thofe of an afs : it has five rows of very white
and fliarp teeth in each jawr, and is in length about four
feet, though it was longer when alive, it having ftirunk
as it became dry.
“ It was caught in a net wdth mackerel *, and being
dragged on fhore, was knocked down with a ftretcher
or boat-hook. The net being opened, it fuddenly
fprung up, and flew above 50 yards: the man who firlt
feized it had feveral of his fingers bitten off; and the
wound mortifying, he died. It afterwards faftened on
the man’s arm who {hows it, and lacerated it fo much,
that the mufcles are fhrunk, and the hand and fingers
diftorted ; the wound is not yet healed, and is thought
to be incurable. It is faid by fome to have been
deferibed by naturalifls under the name of the Sea-
drggon.'1'1 We muft add to the account now given of
the monfter called a fea-dragon, that we think it ex¬
tremely probable that the animal was nothing more
than a diftorted or overgrown individual of fome of the
well known fpecies of fifh,
SEA-Gage. See Sea-GAGE.
SEA-Hare. See Laplysia, Helminthology In¬
dex.
SEA-Horfe, in Ichthyology, the Englifh name of the
Hippocampus. See Syngnathus, Ichthyology In¬
dex.
SEA-Lemon. See Doris, Helminthology Index.
SEA-Lion. See Phoca, Mammalia Index.
Sea-MoII, or Sea-Mcw. See Larus, Ornitholo¬
gy Index.
SEA-Man. See Mermaid.
SEA-Marks. The ereftion of beacons, light-houfes,
and fea-marks, is a branch of the royal prerogative.
By 8 Eliz. 13. the corporation of the Trinity-houfe
are empowered to fet up any beacons or fea-marks
wherever they {hall think them neceffary 5 and if the
owner of the land or any other perfon {hall deftroy
them, or take down any fteeple, tree, or other known
fea-mark, he {hall forfeit 100I. fterling 5 or, in cafe of
inability to pay it, he {hall be ipfo faSlo outlawed.
SEA-Ncedle, Gar-ffh. See Esox, Ichthyology In¬
dex.
SEA-Ncttle. See ANIMAE-Plower.
SEA-Pie, or Oyjler-Catcher, See PLematopus, Or¬
nithology Index.
SEA-Plants, are thofe vegetables that grovT in falt-
water within the fhores of the fea. The old botanifts.
di vifte cl
SEA [ 69 ] SEA
Sea. divided thefe into three claffes. 1. The firll clafs, ac-
~ cording to their arrangement, contained the algce, the
fuci, the fea-mojfes or confervas, and the different fpe-
cies of fponges. 2. The fecond contained fubftances of
a hard texture, like ftone or horn, which feem to have
been of the fame nature with what we call %oophjta,
with this difference, that we refer fponges to this clafs
and not to the firll. The third clafs was the fame with
our lithophjta, comprehending corals, mandrepora, &c.
It is now well known that the genera belonging to the
fecond and third of thefe claffes, and even fome refer¬
red to the firft, are not vegetables, but animals, or the
productions of animals. See Cor.al.lina, Madrepora,
SPONGIA. Sea-plants, then, properly fpeaking, belong
to the clafs of cryptogamia, and the order of algae j
and, according to Bomare, are all comprehended under
the genus of fucus. We may alfo add feveral fpecies
of the ulva and conferva and the fargazo. The fuci
and marine ulvas are immerfed in the fea, are feflile, and
without root. The marine confervae are either feflile or
floating. The fargazo grows beyond foundings.
As fome fpecies of the fucus, when dried and pre-
ferved, are extremely beautiful, the curious, and efpeci-
ally thofe who profecute the ftudy of botany, muft be
anxious to know the bed method of preferving them,
without deftroying their colour and beauty. The fol¬
lowing method is recommended by M. Mauduyt. Take
a fheet of paper, or rather of palteboard, and cover it
with varnifh on both fldes 5 and having rowed in a boat
to the rock where the fucus abounds, plunge your var-
nifhed paper into the water, and, detaching the fucus,
receive it upon the paper. Agitate the paper gently in
the water, that the plant may be properly fpread over
it j and lift them up together foftly out of the water:
then fix down with pins the ftrong ftalks, that they
may not be difplaced, and leave the plant lying upon
the varnifhed paper to dry in the open air. When it is
fully dry, the different parts will retain their pofition,
and the plant may be preferved within the leaves of a
book. To free it from the fume and fait which adhere
to it, wrafi it gently in frelh water, after being removed
from the rock on which it grewr.
SEA-Serpent, a monffrous creature, faid to inhabit the
northern feas about Greenland and the coafts of Nor¬
way. The following marvellous account of this monfter
is given by Guthrie. “ In 17 56, one of them was (hot
by a mafter of a {hip: its head refembled that of a horfe;
the mouth was large and black, as wrere the eyes, a
white mane hanging from its neck : it floated on the
furface of the water, and held its head at leaft. two feet
out of the fea : between the head and neck were feven
or eight folds, which were very thick ; and the length
of this fnake was more than 100 yards, fome fay fa¬
thoms. They have a remarkable averflon to the fmell
of caftor •, for which reafon, fhip, boat, and bark mafters
provide themfelves with quantities of that drug, to pre¬
vent being overfet, the ferpent’s olfactory nerves being
remarkably exquifite. The particularities related of this
animal would be incredible, were they not attefted upon
oath. Egede, a very reputable author, fays, that on the
6th day of July 1734, a large and frightful fea-moniter
raifed itfelf fo high out of the water, that its head
reached above the main-top-maft of the fhip ; that it
had a long fliarp fnout, broad paw's, and fpouled water
like a whale 5 that the body feemed to be covered with
feales j the {kin was uneven and wrinkled, and the lower Seas,
part was formed like a fnake. The body of this monfter
is faid to be as thick as a hogfhead ; his fkin is varie¬
gated like a tortoife fhell 5 and his excrement, which
floats upon the furface of the water, is corroftve.” Not-
withftanding the belief of Guthrie, and the teftimony
which he produces, we cannot help doubting of the ex-
iftence of the fea-ferpent. Its bulk is faid to be fo dif-
proportionate to all the known animals of our globe,
that it requires more than ordinary evidence to render it
credible ; but the evidence which is offered is fo very
feeble and unfatisfaftory, that no man of found judge¬
ment would think it fufficient to eltablifti the truth of
an extraordinary faft.
Attempts have lately been made to revive the opi¬
nion of the exiftence of fea-mermaids and fea-ferpents.
An individual^of the latter, it is fuppofed, was fome time
ago thrown on fhore in Orkney. Part of the fkeleton is
faid to be in the mufeum of the Univerfity of Edin¬
burgh, and another part is in the pofl'eflion of Mr Home
of London, w'ho thinks that it may have belonged to an
individual of fome of the whale tribe, perhaps a monfter
of that tribe 5 but according to others it is to be con-
fidered as conftituting a diftincl genus. We cannot
avoid obferving, that this point muft remain unfettled-
till other fpecies of this new genus have been difeover-
ed, or at leaft till an entire individual have been de-
feribed by an experienced naturalift.
SEA-Sicknefs, a diforder incident to moft perfons on
their firft going to fea, occafioned by the agitation of
the veffel. This diforder has not been much treated of,
although it is very irkfome and diftrefling to the pa¬
tient during its continuance. It has, however, been
found beneficial in afthmntic and pulmonary complaints^,
and the inllances in which it has proved fatal, are ex¬
tremely rare. The fea-ficknefs appears to be a fpafmo-
die affedlion of the ftomach, occafioned by the alternate
preffure and recefs of its contents againft its lower inter¬
nal furface, according as the rife and fall of the fhip op-
pofe the adlion of gravity.
The feas in which the attacks of this diforder are ac¬
companied with the greateft violence, are thofe where
the waves have an uninterrupted freedom of action j
and of confequence bays, gulfs and channels, may be
navigated with lefs inconvenience, as the wTaves, meet¬
ing with more frequent refiftance, the veffel does not
experience that gentle uniform vacillation which in¬
duces ficknefs, and renders the head giddy. A perfoiv
feels lefs inconvenience from the diforder in a finall vef¬
fel on the wide ocean, on wThich the flighteft motion of
the w-aves makes a ftrong impreflion. He is alfo lefs
expofed to it in a very large veffel deeply laden, as the-
waves, in this cafe, fcarcely affedt the veffel. It is in
fliips of an ordinary fize, and which carry but a light
cargo, that the paffenger fuffers moft from the fea-fick¬
nefs. The fooner it takes place after embarkation, the
continuance of it becomes the more probable. It does
not ahvays ceafe immediately on landing, but in fome
cafes continues for a confiderable time.
Many methods of preventing, or at leaft: of mitigat¬
ing this diforder, have been recommended, of which the
moft efficacious appear to be the following.
r. Not to go on board immediately after eating, and
not to eat, when on board, any large quantity at a.
time.
2. To
SEA [
2. To take muck exercife, with as little intevmiflion
as poflible ; as indolent paffengers are always the great-
eft fufferers from the diforder.
3. To keep much upon deck, even when the weather
is ftormy, as the fea breeze is not io apt to aft'ebf the
ftomach as the impure air of the cabin, rendered fo for
wyant of proper circulation.
4. Not to watch the motion of the waves, particularly
when ftrongly agitated with tempeft.
5. Carefully to thun all employments by which the
mind may be haraffed, as reading, ftudying, gaming,
&c. and to feek all opportunities of mental relaxation.
6. To drink occafionally liquids containing carbonic
acid, as the froth of beer ftrongly fermented, or wine
and Seltzer water mixed together, and fweetened with
pounded fugar.
7. It will alfo be beneficial to take fulphuric acid
dulcified, dropped on a bit of fugar, or in peppermint
w'ater, or ten drops of ether.
The proper diet confifts of bread and frefti meat, to
be eaten cold with pepper. All fweet favoured food
ftiould be carefully avoided, and the paflenger ought to
refrain from fat, and particularly from fuch meat as is
in the ftnalleft degree tainted. Even the fmell of
flowers is injurious, for which reafon marine productions
ought not to be examined ; but the fumes of vinegar
may be advantageoufiy inhaled. The drink fhould
confift of lemonade or tart wines, but never of common
water. An accidental diarrhoea has often relieved the
patient from fea-ficknefs, and therefore a gentle laxa¬
tive in fuch a diforder feems to be indicated. It will
alfo be found ufeful to apply a tonic anodyne plafter to
the pit of the ftomach, fpread upon leather, and covered
with linen.
When fymptoms of vomiting appear, they may often
be remedied by the patient placing himfelf in a horizon¬
tal petition on his back or belly, and lying perfectly
Hill. If the fits of vomiting are too violent to be re-
prefled, they fhould be promoted by a ftrong dofe of
fait water; not, however, to be often repeated, as it
debilitates the ftomach. When the emetic operates, the
patient fhould bend his body, bringing his knees to¬
wards his breaft, and fupporting his head againft a firm
refting-place. His garters and cravat muft be untied, a
precaution which will fecure him from the danger of a
rupture.
The vomiting having fubfided, a ftate of repofe will
prevent its return, and the eyes may be kept flrut for a
confiderable time. The patient muft make choice of a
cool, ventilated place, remembering to keep himfelf
warm and well clothed, as perfpiration is highly bene¬
ficial. A gargle of fugar diffolved in vinegar is to be
taken in the morning, accompanied with frequent and
70 ] S E A
fpaie eating. Water mud never be taken in its pure S
ftate, but mixed with wine, \inegar, or brandy. A '
glafs of wine may be taken in the morning, with an in-
fufion of orange peel, gentian root, or peruvian bark.
A glafs of punch occafionally taken will be extremely
beneficial, by which perfpiration is promoted.
Perfons accuftomed to fmoke tobacco, will find the
ufe of the pipe falutary on fuch occafions, but the
praClice of fmoking will he injurious to all others.
We may add that warm clothing, flannel fhirts, caps,
trowfers, &c. are powerful remedies againft excefhve
expectoration, with every other fymptom of this dread¬
ful malady.
SEA-Star. See Asterias, “I Helmintholocy ///-
Sea-Urchin. See Echinus, 5 dex.
SEA-Water, the fait w^ater of the fea. The principal
falts contained in fea-water are, iff, Common marine or
culinary fait, compounded of foflil alkali or foda and
marine acid ; 2dly, A fait formed by the union of the
fame acid with magnetian earth ; and, laftly, A fmall
quantity of felenite. The quantity of faline matter
contained in a pint of fea-water, in the Britifti teas,
is, according to Neumann, about one ounce in each
pint (a).
The faltnefs of this water is fuppofed to arife from
numerous mines and mountains of fait difperfed here and
there in the depths of the fea. Dr Halley fuppofes that
it is probable the greateft part of the fea-falt, and of all
fait lakes, as the Cafpian lea, the Dead fea, the lake of
Mexico, and the Titicaca in Peru, is derived from the
water of the rivers which they receive : and fince this
fort of lakes lias no exit or difeharge but by the exhala¬
tion of vapours, and alfo fince thefe vapours are entirely
frefh or devoid of fuch particles, it. is certain that the
faltnefs of the fea and of fuch lakes muft from time
to time increafe ; and therefore the faltnefs at this time
muft be greater than at any time heretofore. He
further adds, that if, by experiments made in differ¬
ent ages, we could find the different quantity of fait
which the fame quantity of water (taken up in the
fame place, and in all other the fame circumftances)
would afford, it would be eafy from thence, by rules of
proportion, to find the age of the world very nearly,
or the time wherein it has been acquiring its prefent
faltnefs.
This opinion ©f Dr Halley is fo improbable, that it
is furprifing fo acute a philofopher could have adopted
it. That frefh water rivers fhould in the courfe of
many thoufand years produce faltnefs in the fea, is
quite incredible. If this were the cale, every lea or
great body of water which receives rivers muft be fait,
and muft poffefs a degree of faltnefs in proportion to
the quantity of water which the rivers difeharge. But
fo
(a) In Bergman’s analyfis of fea-water taken up in the beginning of June 1776, about the latitude of the Cana¬
ries, from the depth of 60 fathoms, the folid contents of a pint of the wafer were,
Of common fait
Saiited magnelia
Gyplum
Grs. I
253 A |
69tt !
8A f
33° A J
3.
or 5
Grs.
10 T°T
Total
2
SEA [
fo fjr is this from being true, that the Palus Meotis
and the great lakes in America do not contain fait but
frefh water. It may indeed be objected, that the quan¬
tity of fak which the rivers carx-y along with them and
depofxt in the iea, mud depend on the nature of the foil
through which they How, which may in fome places
contain no fait at all: and this may be the reafon why
the great lakes in America and the Palus Meotis are
freth. But to this opinion, which is merely hypotheti¬
cal, there are unfurmountable objections. It is a curious
fadl that the faltnefs of the fea is greateft under the line,
and diminiihes gradually as v/e advance to the poles :
We mutt therefore fuppofe, if Dr Halley’s theory be
true, that the earth contains more fait in the tropical
regions than in the temperate zones, and more in the
temperate zones than in the frigid ; and confequently
that the rivers in thefe different regions contain a quan¬
tity of fait proportionable to their diftance from the
equator. This, however, muff be firft proved by ex¬
periment, and cannot be affumed as an eftablifhed faft.
But there is another circumftance that entirely deftroys
this theory. If we allow that the fea receives its falt¬
nefs from the livers, it mud be equally fait or nearly fo
in every part of the earth. For, according to a dimple
and well known principle inchemidry, “ when any fub-
dance is diffolved in water with the abidance of agita¬
tion, at whatever part of the water it is introduced, it
will be equally diffufed through the whole liquid.”
Now though it were true that a greater quantity of fait
were introduced into the iea under the line than towards
the poles, from the condant agitation occadoned by the
wind and tide, the fait mud foon pervade the whole
mafs of water. To fay that the fuperior degree of heat
in the tropical regions may did'olve a greater quantity
of ialt, will not dedroy our argument •, for it is an eba-
bliihed principle in chemibry, that cold water will dif-
folve nearly as great a quantity of fait as hot water can
dixTolve.
The faltnefs of the fea has alfo been afcribed to
the folution of fubterraneous mines of fait which is
fuppofed to abound in the bottom of the fea and along
its xhores. But this hypotheds cannot be fupported.
If the fea were condantly diffblving fait, it would foon
become faturated 5 for it cannot be faid that it is depri¬
ved of any part of its fait by evaporation, dnee rain¬
water is frelh. If the fea were to become faturated,
•neither ddxes nor vegetables could live in it. We mud
therefore defpair of being able to account for the falt¬
nefs of the fea by fecond caufes ; and mud fuppofe that
it has been fait from the creation. It is impodible in¬
deed to fuppofe that the waters of the fea were at any
period fredx dnee the formation of ddxes and fea-plants :
for as thefe will not live in water faturated with fait,
neither will they live in water that is fredx; we therefore
conclude that the faltnefs of the fea has been nearly the
lame in all ages. This is the dmpled hypotheds of the
three that has been mentioned. It explains bed the
various phenomena, and is involved in feweb difficulties.
W e ffiall, however, allow that there may be fome ex¬
ceptions j that the faltnefs of fome feas, or of particular
parts of the lame fea, may be increafed by mines of
rock-falt difperfed near its ffiores.
With regard to the ufe of this fait property of fea-
water, it is obferved, that the faltnefs of the fea pre-
ferves its waters pure and fweet, which otherwife would
n ] SEA'
corrupt and dink like a filthy lake, and confequently
that none of the myriads of cx-eatures which now live
therein could then have a being. From thence alfo the
fea water becomes much heavier, and therefore flxips of
greater fize and quantity may be ufed thereon. Salt¬
water alfo doth not freeze fo foon as fredx-water, whence
the feas are more free for navigation. Wre have a dif-
fertation, by Dr Ruffel, concerning the medical ufes of
fea-water in difeafes of the glands, &c. wherein the au¬
thor premxfes lome obfervations upon the the nature of
fea-water, confidered as impregnated with particles of all
the bodies it paffes over, fuch as fubmarine plants, fibi,
falts, minerals, &c. and faturated with their feveral ef-
fluvia, to enrich it and keep it from putrefaction : whence
this Hind is fuppofed to contract a loapinefs ; and the
whole collection, being pervaded by the fulphureous
beams paffing through it, to conditute what we call
fca-vjater ; the confeffed didinguulxing charateridics of
which are faltnefs, bitternefs, nitrofity, and unctuofity .-
whence the author concludes, that it may be judly ex¬
pected to contribute fignaily to the improvement of
phyfic. The cafes in which our author informs us we
are to expect advantages from fea-water are, 1. In all
recent obbractions of the glands of the intedines and
mefentery. 2. All recent obbructiens of the pulmo¬
nary glands, and thofe of the vifeera, whiclx frequently
produce confumptions. 3. All recent glandular fwel-
Ixngs of the neck, or other parts. 4. Recent tumors
cf the joints, if they are not fuppurated, or become
fchirrous or cancerous, and have not carious bones for
their caufe. 5. Recent defluxions upon the glands of
the eyelids. 6. All defeedations of the Ikin, from an
erydpelas to a lepra. 7. Difeafes of the glands of the
nofe, with their ufual companion a thicknefs of the lip.
8. ObdrucRions of the kidneys, where there is no in-
flammation, and the done not large. 9. In recent ob-
drudions of the liver, this method will be propexq
where it prevents condipations of the belly, and affids
other medicines direded in iderical cafes. The fame
remedy is faid to be of fignal fervice in the bronchocele 5
and is hkewife recommended for the prevention of
thoie bilious colics that fo frequently affed our ma¬
riners.
Prcfervation of SEA-Water from Putrefa&ion. As it
is fometimes necelTary to prelerve feawater in calks for
bathing and other purpofes, it is of importance to know
l ow to keep it from putrefadion. Many experiments
were made to determine this point by Mr Henry, and
are recorded in the firb volume of the Memoirs of the
Literary and Philofophical Society of Mancheder. His
firb experiment we diall here prefent to our readers.
“To one quart of fea-water were added two fcruples
of frelh quick-lime } to another, half an ounce of com¬
mon culinary fait; and a third was kept as a dandard
without any addition. The mouths of the bottles being
loofely covered with paper, they were expofed to the
adion of the fun in fome of the hotted weather in
fummer. In about a week the dandard became very
offenfive ; and the water, with the additional quantity
of fait, did not continue fweet many hours longer j
whereas that with lime continued many months without
ever exhibiting the lead marks of putridity.” When
he added a dram more of quicklime, the whole of the
magnefia contained in the water -was feparated ; and
when a further addition was made, a lime-water was
immediately
Sea,
Different
S E A
immediately farmed. He therefore
two fcruples of quicklime are fufficient to preferve a
quart of fea-water. The proportions, however, may
vary a little, according to the flrength of the quick¬
lime employed.
Fre/hening of SEA-Water. Tlfe method of making
methods of fea_water frefh was long a defideratum in navigation
frefliening - - & - - - - -
fea-water,
frefliening ]yjany methods have been propofed for this purpofe. Mr
Appleby publifhed an account of a procefs w'hich he had
inftituted in the year 1734. He diftilled fea-water
•with a quantity of lapis infernalis and calcined bones j
but this procefs was foon laid afide, as it was not only
difficult in itfelf, but rendered the water unpalatable.
.Dr Butler propofed foap-leys in place of Mr Appleby’s
ingredients ; but the water was Hill liable to the fame
objection. Dr Stephen Hales recommended powdered
chalk ; but his method was expenfive, and did not im¬
prove the tafte of the water. Dr Lind of Portfmouth
diftilled fea-water without any ingredients; but as the
experiment he made was performed in a veffel contain¬
ing only two quarts, with a glafs receiver, in his ftudy,
2 nothing conclulive can be drawn from it for the ufe of
©r Irving’s failors. At length Dr Irving brought the procefs to a
very high degree of ftmplicity and perfeftion, by which
the water is obtained pure, without much expence of
fuel or a complicated apparatus. For this valuable dif-
covery he received a reward of 5000I. The advantages
of this method remain to be ftated, which may be redu¬
ced to the following : 1. The abolifhing all ftills, ftill-
heads, worm-pipes, and their tubes, which occupy fo
much fpace as to render them totally incompatible with
the neceffary bufinefs of the (hip ; and uftng in the room
of thefe the (hip’s kettle or boiler, to the top wffiereof
may occaftonally be applied a fimple tube, which can be
eafily made on board a veffel at fea, of iron plate, ftove
funnel, or tin ffieet •, fo that no fituation can prevent a
(hip from being completely fupplied wuth the means of
diftilling fea-water. 2. In confequence of the principles
of diftillation being fully afeertained, the contrivance of
the fimpleft means of obtaining the greateft quantity of
diftilled water, by making the tube fufficiently large to
receive the whole column of vapour, and placing it
nearly in a horizontal direction, to prevent any com-
preffion of the ftuid, wffiich takes place fo much with
the common worm. 3. The adopting of the fimpleft
and moft efficacious means of condenfing vapour j for
nothing more is required in the diftillation but keeping
the furface of the tube always wet, which is done by
having fome fea-water at hand, and a perfon to dip a
mop or fwab into this water, and pafs it along the upper
furface of the tube. By this operation the vapour con¬
tained in the tube will be entirely condenfed with the
greateft rapidity imaginable ; for by the application of
the wet mop thin (beets of water are uniformly fpread,
and mechanically preffed upon the furface of the hot
tube \ wffiich being converted into vapour make way for
a fucceffion of frefti (beets j and thus, both by the eva¬
poration and clofe contaft of the cold water conftantly
repeated, the heat is carried off more effeftually than by
any other method yet known. 4. The carrying on the
diftillation without any addition, a correft chemical ana-
lyfis of fea-water having evinced the futility of mixing
ingredients with it, either to prevent an acid from rifing
with the vapour, or to deftroy any bituminous oil fup-
pqfed to exift in fea-water, and to contaminate the di-
r 72 ] s u a
concluded, that (filled water, giving it that fiery unpalatable tafte infe- Sea,
parable from the former proceffes. 5. The afeertaining
the proper quantity of fea-water that ought to be diftil¬
led, whereby the frefti wrater is prevented from con trac¬
ing a noxious impregnation of metallic falls, and the
veffel from being corroded and otherwife damaged by
the falls caking on the bottom of it. 6. The produ¬
cing a quantity of fweet and w'holefome water, per¬
fectly agreeable to the tafte, and fufficient for all the
purpofes of (hipping. 7. The taking advantage of the
dreffing the (hip’s provifions, fo as to diftil a very confi-
derable quantity of water from the vapour, which
would otherwife be loft, without any addition of fuel.
To fum up the merits of this method in a few words :
The ufe of a fimple tube, of the moft eafy conftruCtion,
applicable to apy (hip’s kettle. The rejecting all ingre¬
dients 5 afeertaining the proportion of w'ater to be di¬
ftilled, with every advantage of quality, faring of fuel,
and prefervation of boilers. The obtaining frefti w'ater,
wholefome, palatable, and in fufficient quantities. Ta¬
king advantage of the vapour which afeends in the ket¬
tle while the (hip’s provifions are boiling. All thefei
advantages are obtained by the above mentioned fimple
addition to the common Chip’s kettles. But Dr Irving
propofes to introduce twm further improvements. 'The
firft is a hearth, or ftove, fo conftru&ed that the fire
w’hich is kept up the whole day for the common bufinefs
of the (hip ferves likew'ife for diftillation 5 whereby a
fufticient quantity of water for all the economical pur¬
pofes of the (hip may be obtained, -with a very inconfi-
derable addition to the expence of fuel. The other im¬
provement is that of fubftituting, even in the largeft:
(hips, caft-iron boilers, of a new conftruftion, in the
place of coppers.
As foon as fea-w'ater is put into the boiler, the tubep>;re^tiom
is to be fitted either into the top or lid, round which, iffor diftill-
neceffary, a bit of wet linen may be applied, to make 'ng fea-wa-
it fit clofe to the mouth of the veffel 5 there will be noter'
occafion for luting, as the tube aCIs like a funnel in car¬
rying off the vapour. When the water begins to boil,
the vapour ffiould be allowed to pafs freely for a minute,
which will effeCfually clean the tube and upper part of
the boiler. The tube is afterwards to be kept con¬
ftantly wret, by palling a mop or fw’ab, dipped in fea
water, along its upper furface. The wafte water run¬
ning from the mop may be carried off by means of a
board made like a fpout, and placed beneath the tube.
The diftillation may be continued till three-fourths of
the w'ater be drawn off, and no further. This may be
afeertained either by a gauge-rod put into the boiler, or
by meafuring the w'ater diftilled. The brine is then to
be let out. Water may be diftilled in the fame manner-
while the provifions are boiling. When the tube is
made on ftrore, the beft fubftance for the purpofe is thin
copper well tinned, this being more durable in long
voyages than tin-plates. Inftead of mopping, the tube,
if required, may have a cafe made alfo of copper, fo
much larger in diameter as to admit a thin (heet of wra-
ter to circulate between them by means of a fpiral cop¬
per thread, with a pipe of an inch diameter at each end
of the cafe ; the lower for receiving cold water, and the
upper for carrying it off when heated.
When only a very fmall portion of room can be con¬
veniently allow'ed for diftillation, the machine (fig. 2.),
which is only 27 inche* long, may be fubftituted, as
was-
SCYTHES.
Plate CCCCLXXVDI.
SE C TOR.
A
X)
Sea.
Plate
cccclxxviii
Fig. x.
Fig. 2.
4
Lorgna’s
method of
frefhening
it by conge
Jation
S' E
was done in this voyage.
' this machine, however, is to diftil rum and other li¬
quors ; for which purpofe it has been employed with
extraordinary fuccefs, in preventing an empijreuma, or
fiery tafle.
Figure i. reprefcnts in perfpe&ive a feftion of the
two boilers taken out of the frame. In the back part
at D, E, are feen openings for the cocks. On the top
is a diftilling tube A, B, C, five inches diameter at A,
and decreafing in fize to three inches at C ; the length
from B to C is five feet. Near C is a ring to prevent
the water which is applied to the furface from mixing
with the diftilled water. In the infide of the tube, be
low B, is a fmall lip or ledging, to hinder the diifilled
water from returning into the boiler by the rolling of
the ihip.
In figure 2. A, B, C, D, reprefent a vertical fedtion
of a copper box, 27 inches long, feven inches wide, and
I x in height, tinned on the infide. In the bottom F is
an aperture about fix inches in diameter, having a ring
to fit on the ftill or boiler. The dotted lines which run
nearly horizontal, are veffels of thin copper, tinned on
the outfide, two feet long, feven inches wide, and three
quarters of an inch deep. At G is a funnel to receive
cold water, which is conveyed into the vefiels by com¬
municating pipes, contrived in fuch a manner as to form
a complete and quick circulation of the water through
their whole extent. When the water is become hot by
the aftion of the fleam, it is difcharged by the horizon¬
tal pipe at A. E is a pipe from which the diftilled wa¬
ter or fpirits run, and is bent in fuch a form that the li¬
quor running from it a6ls as a valve, and hinders any
fleam from efcaping that way. On the top of the box,
at H, is a fafety-valve, which prevents any danger from
a great accumulation of vapour not condenfed for want
of a proper fupply of cold water.
We fhall now mention a different method, difcovered
by the Chevalier Lorgna, by congelation of fea-water.
Sea-water requires a very great degree of cold in order
■- to become ice. Our author found that a freezing mix¬
ture, made by mixing three parts of pounded ice with
two parts of common fait, was quite fufficient to freeze
it. The cold produced by this mixture is equal to about
40 below o of Fahrenheit’s thermometer.
A quantity of fea-water is never entirely congealed,
a portion of it always remaining fluid ; and, what is very
remarkable, this fluid part is incomparably more full of
fait and more naufeous than the reft : hence, if this be
feparated from the congealed part, the latter on being
melted will be found to contain much lefs fait than it did
before congelation. This we fhall call the water of the
firji purification.
If the water of the firft purification be again congeal¬
ed,^ part of it will remain fluid as in the firft operation.
This fluid portion will contain a greater proportion of
fait than the reft, which is of courfe more pure, and, be¬
ing melted, forms the water of the fecond purification.
11ms, by repeatedly freezing the fame fea-water, and
feparating the fluid from the congealed part in every
operation, it is at laft perfe&ly purified, fo as to be en¬
tirely diverted oi fait, and as fit for drink and other pur-
pofes as the pureil water that is ufed.
At firft the fea-water, in order to be congealed, re¬
quires a very great degree of cold, as mentioned above,
the ice formed in it confifts rather of fcales or filaments
Vol. XIX. Part I.
A [ 73 ] SEA;
The principal intention of than of a compa£l body, and the quantity of the fluid
parts bears a confiderable proportion to the quantity of
ice. But as the water, by undergoing the iucceflive
congelations, becomes more and more pure, fo it be¬
comes capable of being congealed by a fmailer and
fin after degree of cold ; the ice is at the fame time more
compadl, and in greater quantity j the fluid part at laft
becoming very inconfiderable.
&EA-Weed, or Alga Marina, is commonly ufed as a
manure on the fea-coail, where it can be procured in
abundance. The belt fort grows on rocks, and is that
from which kelp is made. The next to this is called
the peafy fea-weed; and the woril is that with a long
ilalk. In the neighbourhood of Berwick, the farmers
mix it with liable-dung and earth, and thus obtain a
great quantity of excellent manure. Sea-weed is found
alfo to be a very fit manure for gardens, as it not only
enriches them, but deftroys the vermin by which they
are ufualiy infefted.
SeaWo//. See Anarrhxcas, Ichthyology Index,
Sa/tnefs of the SEA. See SEA-Water.
South SEA. See PACIFIC Ocean, and SOUTH Sea.
SEAL, a puncheon, piece of metal, or other matter,
ufually either round or oval 3 whereon are engraven the
arms, device, &c. of fome prince, flate, community, ma-
giflrate, or private perfon, often with a legend or infcrip-
tion 3 the impreflion whereof in wax ferves to make a6ts,
inftruments, &c. authentic.
The ufe of feals, as a mark of authenticity to letters
and other inftruments in writing, is extremely ancient.
We read of it among the Jews and Perfians in the ear-
liefl and moft facred records of hiftory. And in the
book of Jeremiah there is a very remarkable inftance,
not only of an atteftation by feal, but alfo of the ether
ufual formalities attending a Jewifh purchafe. In the
civil law alfo, feals were the evidence of truth, and
were required, on the part of the witneffes at leafl, at
the atieflation of every teftament. But in the times of
our Saxon anceflors, they were not much in ufe in
England. For though Sir Edward Coke relies on an
inftance of King Edwyn’s making ufe of a feal about
100 years before the Conqueft, yet it does not follow
that this was the ufage among the whole nation : and
perhaps the charter he mentions may be of doubtful
authority, from this very circumitance of its being feal-
ed 3 fince we are allured by aft our ancient hiftorians
that fealing was not then in common ufe. The method
of the Saxons was, for fuch as could write to fubfcribe
their names, and, whether they could write or not, to
affix the fign of the crofs 3 which cuftom our illiterate
vulgar do for the moft part to this day keep up, by
figning a crofs for their mark when unable to write
their names. And indeed this inability to write, and
therefore making a crofs in its Head, is honeftly avow¬
ed by Caedwalla, a Saxon king, at the end of one of his
charters. In like manner, and for the fame infurmount-
able reafon, the Normans, a brave but illiterate nation,
at their firil fettlement in France ufed the praflice of
fealing only, without writing their names 3 which cuftom
continued when learning made its way among them,
though the reafon for doing it had ceafed ; and hence
the charter of Edward the Confeflor to Weftmmfter-
abbey, himfelf being brought up in Normandy, was
witnefled onlv by his feal, and is generally thought to
be the oldeft fealed charter of any authenticity in Eng-
K land..
Sea,
Seal.
Seal.
SEA [ 74 ] SEA
land. At the Conqueft, the Norman lords brought
over into this kingdom their own fathions j and intro¬
duced waxen feals only, inllead of the Englilh method
of writing their names, and figning with the fign of the
crofs. The impreffions of thefe feals were fometimes a
knight on horfeback, fometimes other devices ; but
coats of arms were not introduced into feals, nor in¬
deed ufed at all till about the reign of Richard I. who
brought them from the croifade in the Holy Land,
where they were firft invented and painted on the fhields
of the knights, to diftinguifli the variety of perfons of
every Chriftian nation who reforted thither, and who
could not, when clad in complete Reel, be otherwife
known or afcertained.
This negledl of figning, and refting only upon the
authenticity of feals, remained very long among us; for
it was held in all our bodes, that fealing alone was fuf-
ficient to authenticate a deed: and fo the common form
of attefting deeds, “ fealed and delivered,” continues to
this day; notwithftandiag the fiatute 29 Car. II. c. 3.
revives the Saxon cuftom, and exprefsly dire&s the fign¬
ing in all grants of lands and many other fpecies of
deeds : in which, therefore, figning feems to be now as
neceffary as fealing, though it hath been fometimes held
that the one includes the other.
The king’s great feal is that whereby all patents, com-
miffions, warrants, &c. coming down from the king are
fealed ; the keeping whereof is in the hands of the lord
chancellor. The king’s privy feal is a feal that is ufual-
ly firft fet to grants that are to pafs the great feal.
Seal. See Keeper of the Privy-Seal.
Seal is alfo ufed for the wax or lead, and the im-
preflion thereon affixed to the thing fealed.
An amalgam of mercury with gold, reduced to the
confiftence of butter, by ftraining oft' part of the mer¬
cury through leather, has been recommended as a pro¬
per material for taking off the impreflion of feals in wax.
In this ftate, the compound fcarcely contains one part
of mercury to tavo of gold ; yet is of a filver whitenefs,
as if there was none of the precious metal in it. In
this ftate it grew’S foft on being w'armed or wmrked be¬
tween the fingers; and is therefore proper for the pur-
pofe above-mentioned, but is not fuperior to fome amal¬
gams made with the inferior metals, as is well knowm to
fome impoftors, who have fold for this ufe amalgams of
the bafe metals as curious preparations of gold.
Seal. See Phoca, Mammalia Index.
SEALER, an officer in chancery appointed by the
lord chancellor or keeper of the great feal, to feal the
W'rits and inftruments there made in his prefence.
SEALING, in Architecture, the fixing a piece of
wood or iron in a wall with plafter, mortal', cement,
lead, or other folid binding. For ftaples, hinges, and
joints, plafter is very proper.
Sealing Wax. See Wax.
SEAM, or Seme, of corn, is a meafure of eight bu-
Scal
11
Seam.
ftiels.
SEAM of Glafs, the quantity of 120 pounds, or 24
ftones, each five pounds weight. The feam of wood is
an horfe-load working.
Seam, in mines, the fame with a ftratum or bed; as a
feam of coal.
SEAMANSHIP.
Definition. "QN word we ^'prefs that noble art, or, more
E) purely, the qualifications which enable a man to
exercife the noble art of working a ffiip. A seaman,
in the language of the profeffion, is not merely a mari¬
ner or labourer on board a {hip, but a man who under-
Hands the ftru&ure of this wonderful machine, and every
Subordinate part of its mechanifm, fo as to enable him
to employ it to the beft advantage for puftnng her for¬
ward in a particular dire&ion, and for avoiding the
numberlefs dangers to which fire is expofed by the vio¬
lence of the winds and waves. He alfo knows what
courfes can be held by the {hip, according to the wind
that blows, and what cannot, and which of thefe is moft
conducive to her progrels in her intended voyage ; and
he muft be able to perform every part of the neceffary
operation with his own hands. As the feamen exprefs
2 it, he muft be able “ to hand, reef, and fteer.”
Importance We are juftified in calling it a noble art, not only by
importance, which it is quite needlefs to amplify or
embellifir, but by its immenfe extent and difficulty, and
the prodigious number and variety of principles on w-hich
it is founded—all of which muft be poffeffed in fuch a
manner that they {hall offer themfelves without reflec¬
tion in an inftant, otherwife the pretended feaman is but
a lubber, and cannot be trufted on his watch.
The art is praffifed by perfons without what we call
-education, and in the humbler walks of life, and there¬
fore it fuffers in the eftimation of the carelefs fpe&ator.
It is thought little of, becaufe little attention is paid
to it. But if multiplicity, variety, and intricacy of
principles, and a fyftematic knowledge of thefe prin¬
ciples, intitle any art to the appellation of feientife and
liberal, feamanffiip claims thefe epithets in an eminent
degree. We are amufed with the pedantry of the fea¬
man, which appears in his whole language. Indeed it
is the only pedantry that amufes. A fcholar, a foldier,
a lawyer, nay, even the elegant courtier, would difguft
us, were he to make the thoufandth part of the allufions
to his profeffion that is well received from the jolly fea¬
man ; and we do the feaman no more than juflice. His
profeffion mujl engrofs his whole mind, otherwife he can
never learn it. He poffcffes a prodigious deal of know¬
ledge ; but the honeft tar cannot tell what he knows, or 3
rather what he feels, for his fcience is really at his fin-oftheualti
gers ends. We can fay with confidence, that if a per-
fon of education, verfed in mechanics, and acquainted
with the ftrutture of a ffiip, were to obferve with atten¬
tion the movements which are made on board a firft or
fecond rate ftiip of war during a ffiifting ftorm, under
the direflion of an intelligent officer, he would be rapt
in admiration.
What a pity it is that an art fo important, fo diffi¬
cult, and fo intimately connedled with the invariable
laws of mechanical nature, ftiould be fo held by its poi-
feffors, that it cannot improve, but muft die with each
individual. Having no advantages of previous educa-
75
S E A M A
lion, tney cannot arrange their thoughts; they can
hardly be faid to think. They can far lefs exprefs or
communicate to others the intuitive knowledge which
they pofl'efs ; and their art, acquired by habit alone, is
little different from an inftinft. We are as little in-
titled to expeft improvement here as in the architec¬
ture of the bee or the beaver. The fpecies (pardon
the allufion, ye generous hearts of oak) cannot improve.
Yet a (hip is a machine. We know the forces which
act on it, and we know the refults of its conftrudfion—
all thefe are as fixed as the laws of motion. What hin¬
ders this to be reduced to a let of praftical maxims, as
well founded and as logically deduced as the working
of a Iteam engine or a cotton mill. 1 he ftoker or the
fpinner a£ts only with his hands, and may “ whiffle as
he works, for want of thoughtbut the mechanift, the
engineer, thinks for him, improves his machine, and di-
re&s him to a better praaice. May not the rough Tea¬
man look for the fame affiftance ; and may not the inge¬
nious fpeculatiff in his clofet unravel the intricate thread
of mechanifm which conneas all the manual operations
with the unchangeable laws of nature, and both furmfli
the teaman with a better machine and direa him to a
A more dexterous ufe of it ?
which has We cannot help thinking that much may be done ;
been ze< 1- nay, we may fay that much has been done. We think
oufly culti- hip-jjiy 0f the progreffive labours of Renaud, Pitot, Bou-
the^rench g»cr, Du Hamel, Groignard, Bernoulli, Euler, Romme,
philofo- and others ; and are both furprifed and forry that Bri-
phers. tain has contributed fo little in thefe attempts. Gor¬
don is the only one of our countrymen who has given a
profeffedly fcientific treatife on a fmall branch of the
fubjedt. The government of France has always been
ffrongly xmprefled with the notion of great improve
ments being attainable by fyftematic ffudy of this art*,
and wc are indebted to the endeavours of that ingenious
nation for any thing of pra6fical importance that has
been obtained. M. Bouguer was profefibr of hydro¬
logy at one of the marine academies of France, and
was enjoined, as part of his duty, to compofe diflerta-
tions both on the conftruflion and the working of ffiips.
His Traite clu Navire, and his Manoeuvre des Vai/Jeaux,
are undoubtedly very valuable performances : So are
thofe of Euler and Bernoulli, confidered as mathemati¬
cal ditTcrtations, and they are wonderful works of ge¬
nius, confidered as the productions of perfons who hard¬
ly ever faw a (hip, and were totally unacquainted with
the profeflion of a Teaman. In this reffect Bouguer had
great fuperiority, having always lived at a fea port,
and having made many very long voyages. His trea-
tifes therefore are infinitely better accommodated to the
demands of the feaman, and more dire6tly inffruftive ;
but Itill the author is more a mathematician than an ar-
tift, and his performance is intelligible only to mathe¬
maticians. It is true, the academical education of the
young gentlemen of the French navy is fuch, that a
great number of them may acquire the preparatory
knowledge that is neceffary and we are well informed
that, in this refpeft, the officers of the Britiffi navy are
greatly inferior to them.
^ But this very circumftance has furnilhed to many
n'uunft t ie Per^ons an argument againft the utility of thofe per-
utility of formances. It is faid that, “ notwithftanding this fu
their per- perior mathematical education, and the poffeflion of
fomunces, boafted performances of M. Bouguer, the French
N S H I P.
are greatly inferior, in point of feamanffiip, to cur coun¬
trymen, who have not a page in their language to in-
Itruft them, and who could not perule it it they had it.”
Nay, fo little do the French themlelves feem fenfible cl
the advantage of thefe publications, that no perfon a-
meng them has attempted to make a familiar abridge¬
ment of them, written in a way fitted to attraft atten¬
tion *, and they ftill remain neglefted in their original
abftrufe and uninterefting form.
We wifti that we could give a fatisfaclory anfwer to
this obfervation. It is juft, ard it is importan*-. Thefe
very ingenious and learned differtations are by no means
fo ufeful as we (hould expeft. They are large books,
and appear to contain much ; and as their plan is logical,
it feems to occupy the wffiole fubjefl, and therefore to
have done almoft all that can be done. But, alas ! they
have only opened the fubjeci, and the ftudy is yet in its
infancy. The whole fcience of the art muff proceed
on the knowledge of the impulfions of the wind and
water. Thefe are the forces which adl on the machine j
and its motions, which are the ultimatum ot our re-
fearch, whether as an end to be obtained or as a thing
to be prevented, muff depend on thefe forces. Now it
is with refpedt to this fundamental point that we are as
yet almoft totally in the dark. And, in the perform-whic ha re
ances of M. Bouguer, as alfo in thofe of the other au-
thors we have named, the theory of thefe forces, by in thejr
which their quantity and the direflion of their action fundamen-
are afeertained, is altogether erroneous j and its refults tal princi-
deviate fo enormoufly from vffiat is obferved in the mo- Ples >
tions of a ffiip, that the perfon vffio ihould direft the
operations on Chipboard, in conformity to the maxims
deducible from M. Bouguer’s propofitions, would be
baffled in moft of his attempts, and be in danger of
lofing the ftiip. The xvhole proceeds on the fuppofed
truth of that theory which ftates the itnpulfe of a fluid
to be in the proportion of the fquare of the fine of the
angle of incidence *, and that its aftion on any fmall
portion, fuch as a fquare foot of the fails or hull, is the
fame as if that portion w*ere detached from the reft, and
were expofed, fingle and alone, to the wind or water in
the fame angle. But we have ffiown, in the article
Resistance of Fluids, both from theory and experi¬
ence, that both of thefe principles are erroneous, and
this to a very great degree, in cafes which occur moft
frequently in praftice, that is, in the fmall angles of in¬
clination. When the wind falls nearly perpendicular on
the fails, theory is not very erroneous : but in thefe
cafes, the circumftances of the Chip’s fituation are gene¬
rally fuch that the practice is eafy, occurring almoft
without thought; and in this cafe, too, even confider-
able deviations from the very beft praftice are of no
great moment. The interefting cafes, where the in¬
tended movement requires or depends upon very oblique
actions of the wind on the fails, and its pra&icability or
imprafficability depends on a very fmall variation of
this obliquity ; a miitake of the force, either as to in-
tenfity or dire&ion, produces a mighty efte<5t on the re-
fulting motion. This is the cafe in failing to windward ;
the moft important of all the general problems of fea-
manfhip. The trim of the fails, and the courfe of the
fhip, fo as to gain moft on the wind, are very nice
things j that is, they are confined within very narrow
limits, and a fmall miflake produces a very confiderabie
effect. The fame thing obtains in many of the nice pro-
K 3 blems
76
7
though ufe
i»a> be
made of
them.
«
Beflgn of
this article.
SEAMANSHIP.
blems of tacking, box-hauling, wearing after lying to in
a ftorm, &c. °
The error in the fecond affertion of the theory is fiill
greater, and the a6lion on one part of the fail or hull is
fo greatly modified by its aftion on another adjoining
part, that a ftay-fail is often feen hanging like a loofe
rag, although there is nothing between it and the wind ;
and this merely becaufe a great fail in its neighbourhood
fends oft a lateral ftream of wind, which completely
hindeis the wind from getting at it. Till the theory of
the adtion of fluids be eftablilhed, therefore, we cannot
tell what are the forces which are adding on every point
of the fail and hull: Therefore we cannot tell either the
mean intenfity or diredlion of the w-hole force which
adds oil any particular fail, nor the intenfity and mean
diredlion of the refiftance to the hull j circumftances
abfolutely neceflary for enabling us to fay what will be
their energy in producing a rotation round any particu¬
lar axis. In like manner, we cannot, by fuch a com¬
putation, find the fpontaneous axis of converfion (fee
Rotation), or the velocity of fuch converfion. In
fhort, we cannot pronounce with tolerable confidence
a priori what will be the motions in any cafe, or what
difpofitions of the fails wull produce the movement we
with to perform. The experienced feaman learns by
habit the general effedls of every difpofition of the fails 5
and though his knowledge is far from being accurate,
it feldom leads him into any very blundering operation.
Perhaps he feldom makes the bell adjuftment poflible,
but feldomer Hill does he deviate very far from it ; and
in the moll general and important problems, fuch as
working to windward, the refult of much experience
and many corredlions has fettled a trim of the fails,
which is certainly not far from the truth, but (it mull
be acknowledged) deviates widely and uniformly from
the theories of the mathematician’s clofet, The honell
tar, therefore, mull be indulged in his joke on the ufe-
lefs labours oi the mathematician, who can neither hand,
reef, nor fleer.
After this account of the theoretical performances in
the art of feamanlliip, and what we have faid in another
place on the fmall hopes we entertain of feeing a perfect
theory of the impulfe of fluids, it will not be expe&ed
that we enter very minutely on the fubjeft in this place ; •
nor is it our intention. But let it be obferved, that the
theory is defeftive in one point only j and although this
is a moll important point, and the errors in it dellroy
the conclufions of the chief propolitions, the reafonings
remain in full force, and the modus operandi is precifely
fuch as is Hated in the theory. The principles of the
art are therefore to be found in thefe treatifes j but falfe
inferences have been drawn, by computing from errone¬
ous quantities. The rules and the praflice of the com¬
putation, however, are ft’ll beyond controverfy : Nay,
fince the procefs of invelligation is legitimate, we may
make ufe of it in order to difcover the very circumftance
in which wc are at prefent miltaken : for by converting
the propolition, inllead of finding the motions by means
of the fuppofed forces, combined with the known tue-
chanifm, w7e may difcover the forces by means of this
rnechanifm and the obferved motions.
We lhall therefore in this place give a very general
view of the movements of a fhip under fail, fhowing
how they are produced and modified by the aflion of
the wind on her fails, the water on her rudder and on
her bows. We fhall not attempt a precife determina¬
tion of any of thefe movements ; but we lhall fay enough
to enable the curious landfman to underlland how this
mighty machine is managed amidil the fury of the winds
and waves: and, what is more to our with, we hope to
enable the uninllrudled but thinking feaman to gene-
ralife that knowledge which he pofleffes 5 to clafs his
ideas, and give them a fort of rational fyltem ; and even
to improve his praftice, by making him fenfible of the
immediate operation of every thing he does, and in what
manner it contributes to produce the movement which
he has in view.
A Ihip may be confidered at prefent as a mafs of inert a flap con-
matter in free fpace, at liberty to move in every direc-iklered as
tion, according to the forces which impel or refill her :10 free.
and when Ihe is in actual motion, in the diredlion of her fP^e im",
courfe, we may Hill confider her as at reft in abfolute refifte/by
fpace, but expofed to the impulfe of a current of water oppofite "
moving equally fall in the oppolite diredlion : for in forces,
both cafes the preflu re of the water on her bows is the
fame 5 and we know that it is poflible, and frequently
happens in currents, that the impulfe of the wind on
her fails, and that of the water on her bows, balance
each other fo precifely, that Ihe not only does not liir
from the place, but alfo remains fteadily in the fame
poll tion, with her head diredled to the fame point of the
compafs. I his Hate of things is ealily conceived by
any perfon accuftomed to confider mechanical fubjedts,
and every feaman of experience has obferved it. It
is of importance to confider it in this point of view, be¬
caufe it gives us the moll familiar notion of the man¬
ner in which thefe forces of the wind and water are fet
in oppofttion, and made to balance or not to balance
each other by the intervention of the Ihip, in the fame
manner as the goods and the weights balance each other
in the feales by the intervention of a beam orlleelyard.
When a Ihip proceeds fteadily in her courfe, without Im
changing her rate of failing, or varying the diredlion of th/wind
her head, we mull in the firll place conceive the accu- on the fails
mulated impulfes of the wind on all her fails as precife-0PPollte to
ly equal and diredlly oppofite to the impulfe of the wa-^ter^a'6
ter on her bows. In the next place, becaufe the Ihip the bow”,
does not change the diredlion of her keel, the refembles
the balanced fteelyard, in which the energies of the two
weights, which tend to produce rotations in oppofite
diredlions, and thus to change the pofition of the beam,
mutually balance each other round the fulcrum $ fo the
energies of the adlions of the wind on the different fails
balance the energies of the water on the different parts
of the hull.
The feaman has two principal talks to perform. The
firll is to keep the Ihip lleadily in that courfe which
will bring her farthell on in the line of her intended
voyage. This is frequently very different from that
line, and the choice of the bell courfe is fometimes a
matter of confiderable difficulty. It is fometimes pof-
fible to lhape the courfe precifely along the line of the feaman d;f«
voyage; and yet the intelligent feaman knows that hep!ayed in
will arrive fooner, or with greater fafety, at his port,lll;iP‘n§llis
by taking a different courfe; becaufe he will gain morecouli”'
by increaling his fpeed than he lofcs by increafing the
dillance. Some principle mull diredl him in the felec-
tion of this courfe. This we mull attempt to lay before
the reader.
Having chofen fuch a courfe as he thinks moll advan¬
tageous,
17
Imimlfe of
the water
computed
in ounces
on the
fquare foot.
S E A M A
tageous, he mart fet fuch a quantity of fail as the flrength
of the wind will allow him to carry with fafety and ef*
feft, and mart trim the fails properly, or fo adjaft their
pofitions to the direction of the wind, that they may
have the greateft pofhble tendency to impel the fhip in
the line of her courfe, and to keep her fteadily in that
direction.
His other talk is to prodace any deviations which he
fees proper from the prefent coarle of the fhip 5 and to
prodace thefe in the molt certain, the fafelt, and the
molt expeditious manner. It is chiefly in this movement
that the mechanical nature of a fhip comes into view,
and it is here that the fuperior addrefs and refource of an
expert feaman is to be perceived.
Under the article Sailing fome notice has been taken
of the firlt talk of the feaman, and it was" there fliown
how a (hip, after having taken up her anchor and fitted
her fails, accelerates her motion, by degrees which con¬
tinually diminilh, till the increafing refiltance of the wa¬
ter becomes precifely equal to the diminiihed impulfe of
the wind, and then the motion continues uniformly the
fame fo long as the wind continues to blow with the fame
force and in the fame direction.
It is perfeftly confonant to experience that the impulfe
of fluids is in the duplicate ratio of the relative velocity.
Let it be fuppofed that when water moves one foot per
fecond, its perpendicular preffure or impulfe on a fquare
foot is m pounds. Then, if it be moving with the velo¬
city V eftimated in feet per fecond, its perpendicular
impulfe on a furfa.ce S, containing any number of fquare
feet, mull be m SVS.
In like manner, the impulfe of air on the fame fur-
face may be reprefented by ra S V1; and the proportion
of the impulfe of thefe two fluids wdll be that of m to ??.
We may exprefs this by the ratio off to 1, making
m
M. Bouguer’s computations and tables are on the
fuppofition that the impulfe of fea-w^ater moving one
foot per fecond is 23 ounces on a fquare foot, and that
the impulfe of the wind is the fame when it blows at
the rate of 24 feet per fecond. Thefe mealures are all
French. They by no means agree with the experi¬
ments of others \ and what we have already faid, when
treating of the RESISTANCE of Fluids, is enough to
Ihow us that nothing like precife meafures can be ex¬
pected. It was (hown as the refult of a rational invef-
tigation, and confirmed by the experiments of Buat
and others, that the impulfions and refiflances at the
fame furface, with the fame obliquity of incidence and
the fame velocity of motion, are different according to
the form and fituation of the adjoining parts. Thus
the total refiltance of a thin board is greater than that
of a long priftn, having this board for its front or bowq
&c.
We are greatly at a lofs what to give as abfolute mea¬
fures of thefe impulfions.
1. With refpeCt to water. The experiments of the
trench academy on a prifm tivo feet broad and deep
and four feet long, indicate a refiftance of 0,973 pounds
avoirdupois to a fquare foot, moving with the velocity of
one foot per fecond at the furface of ftill water.
Mr Boat’s experiments on a fquare foot wholly im-
merfed in a ft re am were as follow ;
N S H I P. 77
A fquare foot as a thin plate - 1,81 pounds.
Ditto as the front of a box one foot
long . - - . 1,42
Ditto as the front of a box three feet
long - - - # - 1,29
The reliftance of fea-water is about Aj- greater.
2. With refpeCl to air, the varieties are as great.—-
The refiftance of a fquare foot to air moving with the
velocity of one foot per fecond appears from Mr Ro¬
bins’s experiments on 16 fquare inches to be on a
fquare foot ... 0,001596 pounds,
Chevalier Borda’s on 16 inches 0,001757
  on 81 inches 0,002042
Mr Roufe’s on large furfaces 0,002291
Precife meafures are not to be expeCIed, nor are they
neceffary in this inquiry. Here we are chiefly intereft-
ed in their proportions, as they may be varied by their
mode of aftion in the different circumftances of obliqui¬
ty and velocity.
We begin by recurring to the fundamental propofi--
tion concerning'the impulfe of fluids, viz. that the abfo¬
lute preffure is always in a direftion perpendicular to
the impelled furface, whatever may be the direction of
the ftream of fluid. We muft therefore illuftrate the,... ^. ^
doctrine, by always fuppofing a flat furface of lail |)Ujie on
ftretched on a yard, which can be braced about in any the fail
direftion, and giving this fail fuch a pofiticn and fuch perpendi-
an extent of furface that the impulfe on it may be thecu^‘r 1:0 t'1‘
fame both as to direction and intenfity with that on^a‘ '
the real fails. Thus the confideration is greatly fimpli-
fied. The direftion of the impulfe is therefore perpen¬
dicular to the yard. Its intenfity depends on the ve¬
locity with which the wind meets the fail, and the obli¬
quity of its ftroke. We {hall adopt the conflrmftions
founded on the common dodtrine, that the impulfe is as
the fquare of the fine of the inclination, becaufe they
are fimple ; whereas, if we were to introduce the values
of the oblique impulfes, fuch as they have been obfer-
ved in the excellent experiments of the Academy of
Paris, the conftrudtions would be complicated in the
extreme, and we could hardly draw any confequences
which would be intelligible to any but expert mathema¬
ticians. The conclufions will be erroneous, not in kind
but in quantity only; and we fhall point out the necef¬
fary corrections, fo that the final refults will be found
not very different from real obfervation.
If a fliip were a round cylindrical body like a flat A A4
tub, floating on its bottom, and fitted with a maft andcom])are4
fail in the centre, fhe would always fail in a diredtion to an ob-
perpendicular to the yard. This is evident. But flue l°nS box*
is an oblong body, and may be compared to a cheft,
whofe length greatly exceeds its breadth. She is fo
fliaped, that a moderate force will pufli her through
the water with the head or flem foremofl; 5 but it re¬
quires a very great force to pufli her fidewife with the
fame velocity. A fine failing fhip of war wfill require
about 12 times as much force to pufh her fidewife as
to pufli her head foremoft. In this relpedt therefore ihe
will very much referable a cheft whofe length is 12 times
its breadth ; and whatever be the proportion of thefe
refiftances in different fliips, we mav always fubftitute a
box which {hall have the fame refiftances headwife and
fidewife.
Let EFGH (fig. 1.) be the horizontal fedtion of
fuch
4
78 , S E A M A
Plate fucli a foox, and AB its middle line, and C its centre.
cccclxxix jn whatever direction this box may chance to move, the
dire&ion of the whole refiftance on its two tides will
pafs through C. For as the whole ifream has one incli¬
nation to the fide EF, the equivalent of the equal im-
pulfes on every part will be in a line perpendicular to
the middle of EF. For the fame reafon, it will be in a
line perpendicular to the middle of FG. Thefe per¬
pendiculars muft crofs in C. Suppofe a mail eredled
15 at C, and YCt/ to be a yard hoifted on it carrying a
Makes lee- fail. Let the yard be firft conceived as braced right
way when aj]lwarj- rJglu angles to the keel, as reprefented by
direftlj^be-Y'#'• Then, whatever be the diredlion of the wind
fore the " abaft this fail, it will impel the veffel in the direction
wind CB. But if the fail has the oblique pofition Y y, the
impulfe will be in the direflion CD perpendicular to CY,
and rvill both pufh the vefiel ahead and fidewife : For
the impulfe CD is equivalent to the trvo impulfes CK
and Cl (the fides of a reclangle of which CD is the
diagonal). The force Cl pulhes the veffel ahead, and
CK puflies her fidewife. She muft therefore take fome
intermediate diredlion a b, (itch that the refiftance of
the water to the plane FG is toils refiftance to the plane
EF as Cl to CK.
The angle b CB between the real courfe and the di-
reclion of the head is called the Leeway; and in the
courfe of this differtation we {hall exprefs it by the
fymbol x. It evidently depends on the lhape of the
vefiel and on the pofition of the yard. An accurate
knowledge of the quantity of leeway, correfponding to
different circumftances of obliquity of impulfe, extent of
furface, &c. is of the utmoft importance in the pradlice
of navigation ; and even an approximation is valuable.
The fubjeft is fo very difficult that this muft content us
16 for the prefent.
How to Let V be the velocity of the flap in the direction
(ukI the r b, and let the furfnees FG and FE be called A' and
Lew ay ^ ° B'. Then the refiftanee to the lateral motion is
V1 X B' X fine L £CB, and that to the direcl motion
is mV1 X A' X fine s, b(^K, or m V1 X A' X cof.2bCB.
Therefore thefe refiftances are in the proportion of
B' X ftne*, x to A' X cof.% x (reprefenting the angle
of leeway b CB by the fymbol y).
Therefore we have Cl : CK, or Cl : ID = A!’
fine* x
cof. zx : B'* fine* ~ A': B'-—jr—— A : B • tap-
coi. x
gent * x.
Let the angle YCB, to -which the yard is braced
up, be called the Trim of the fails, and expreffed by
the fymbol b. This is the complement of the angle
DCI. Notv Cl : ID = rad. : tan. DCI, = 1 : tan.
DCI, 1 : cotan. b. Therefore we have finally 1 : co¬
tan. b — A!: Br' tan. * x, and A' • cotan. rr B' • tan-
A
gent 1 x, and tan. 12 x ■=. b. This equation evi¬
dently afeertains the mutual relation between the trim
of the fails and the leeway in every cafe where we can
tell the proportion between the refiftances to the direct
and broadfide motions of the ffiip, and where this pro-
ponion does not change by the obliquity of the courfe.
Thus, fuppofe the yard braced up to an angle of 30°
with the keel. Then cotan. 3o° r= 1,732 very nearly.
Suppofe alfo that the refiftance fidewife is 12 times
greater than the refiftance headwife. This gives
4
N S H I P.
A' — 1 and B' zr 12. Therefore 1,732 =2 12 X tan-
gent * xf and tangent x ~ —, ru: 0,14434, ana tAn.
x — 0,3799, and x— 20° 48', very nearly two points
of leeway.
This computation, or rather the equation which gives
room for it, fuppofes the refiftahees proportional to the
fquares of the fines of incidence. The experiments of
the Academy of Paris, of which an abftrafl is given
in the article RESISTANCE of Fluids, ftrow that this
fuppofition is not far from the truth when the angle of
incidence is great. In the prefent cafe the angle of in¬
cidence on the front EG is about 70°, and the experi¬
ments juft now mentioned ftrow that the real refinances
exceed the theoretical ones only But the angle
of incidence on EF is only 20° 48'. Experiment
fliows that in this inclination the refiftance is aimoft
quadruple of the theoretical refiftances. Therefore the
lateral refiftance is affumed much too Imall in the pre¬
fent inftance. Therefore a much fmaller leeway will
fuffice tor producing a lateral refiftance which will ba¬
lance the lateral impulle CK, anting trem the obliquity
of the fail, viz. 30°. 't he matter of fad is, that a pret¬
ty good failing ffiip, vith her fails braced to this angle
at a medium, will not make above five or fix degrees
leeway in fmcoth water and eafy weather; and yet in
this iituation the hull and rigging prelent a very great
furface to the tvind, in the moft improper pofitions, to
as to have a very great effed in increafing her leeway.
And if we compute the refiftances tor this leeway of
fix degrees by the adual experiments of the French A-
cademy on the angle, we ffiall find the refult not far
from the truth ; that is, the dired and lateral refiftances
will bp nearly in the proportion of Cl to ID.
It refults from this view of the matter, that the lee¬
way is in general much finaller than what tire ufual theo¬
ry affigns. 17
We alfo fee, that according to whatever law the re-which de-
fiftances change by a change of inclination, the leeway
remains the fame while the trim of the fails is the fame. ^ la^s
The leeway depends only on the diredion of the im¬
pulfe of the wind ; and this depends folely on the pofi¬
tion of the fails with refped to the keel, whatever may
be the diredion of the wind. This is a very important
obfervation, and will be frequently referred to in the
progrefs of the prefent inveftigation. Note, however,
that we are here confidering only the adion 'on the fails,
and on the fame fails. We are not confidering the ac¬
tion of the wind on the hull and rigging. This may be
very confideiable ; and it is always in a lee diredion,
and augments the leeway; and its influence muft be fo
much the more fer.fible as it bears a greater proportion
to the impulle on the fails. A fliip under courfes, or
clofe-reefed topfails and courfes, muft make more leeway
than when under all her canvas trimmed, to the fame
angle. But to introduce this additional caufe of devia¬
tion here would render the inveftigation too complicated
to be of any ufe. j3
This dodrine will be confiderably killu ft rated by at- Illuttration
tending to the manner in which a lighter is tracked a- ofttm doc-
long a canal, or fwings to its anchor in a ftream. Thetnne
track rope is made fall to fome llaple or bolt E on the^f^"
deck (fig. 2.), and is pafied between two of the timber- fjg. 2.
heads of the bow D, and laid hold of at F on fliore.
The men or cattle walk along the path FG, the rope
keeps
79
S E A M A
keeps extended in the directions DF, and the lighter ar¬
ranges itfelf in an oblique pofition AB, and is thus
.dragged along in the direction ab, parallel to the hde
of the canal. Or, if the canal has a current in the op-
poiite direction b a, the lighter may be kept fteady in
its place by the rope DF made fait to a poft at F. In
this cafe, it is always obferved, that the lighter fwings
in a polition AB, which is oblique to the ftream a b.
Now7 the force which retains it in this pofition, and
which precifely balances the aCtion of the Hr earn, is cer¬
tainly exerted in the direction DF ; and the lighter
would be held in the fame manner if the rope were
made fait at C amldlhip, without any dependence on the
timbevheads at D •, and it would be held in the fame
pofition, if, inftead of the fmgle rope CF, it were riding
by two ropes CG and CH, of which CH is in a diiec-
tion right ahead, but oblique to the ftream, and the
other CG is perpendicular to CH or AB. And, draw¬
ing DI and DK perpendicular to AB and CG, the
ftrain on the rope CH is to that on the rope CG as Cl
to CK. The aCtion of the rope in thefe cafes is pre¬
cifely analogous to that of the fail ij \ \ and the
obliquity of the keel to the direction of the motion, or
to the direction of the itream, is analogous to the lee¬
way. All this mult be evident to any perfon accuftom-
jp ed to mechanical difquifitions.
On models A moll important ufe may be made of this illuftra-
and tion. If an accurate model be made of a Ihip, and if
it be placed in a ftream of water, and ridden in this
manner by a rope made fall at any point D of the bow,
it will arrange itfelf in fome determined pofition AB.
There will be a certain obliquity to the ftream, mea-
fured by the angle Bo^; and there will be a corre-
fponding obliquity of the rope, meafured by the angle
FCB. Let ij CY be perpendicular to CF. I hen C\
will be the pofition of the yard, or trim of the fails cor-
refponding to the leeway b CB. Then, if we fhift the
rope to a point of the bow diftant from D by a fmall
quantity, we {hall obtain a new pofition or the Ihip,
both with refpeCt to the ftream and rope ; and in this
way may be obtained the relation between the pofition
of the fails and the leeway, independent of all theory,
and fufceptible of great accuracy •, and this may be
done with a variety of models fuited to the molt ufual
20 forms of fhips.
onthlpi. In farther thinking on this fubjeCt, we are perfuaded
Fig. 3. that thefe experiments, inftead of being made on mo¬
dels, may with equal eafe be made on a {hip of any fize.
Let the (hip ride in a ftream at a mooring D (fig. 3.)
by means of a fliort hawfer BCD from her bow7, ha¬
ving a fpring AC on it carried out from her quarter.
She will fwing to her moorings, till fiie ranges herfelf
in a certain pofition AB with refpeCt to the direction
c b of the ftream ; and the direction of the hawfer DC
will point to feme point E of the line of the keel. Now,
it is plain to any perfon acquainted with mechanical dif-
<}uifitions, that the deviation BE£ is precifely the lee¬
way that the lhip will make when the average pofition
of the fails is that of the line GEH perpendicular to
ED ; at lead this will give the leeway which is produ¬
ced by the fails alone. By heaving on the fpring, the
knotC may be brought into any other pofition we pleafe ;
turd for every new pofition of the knot the Ihip wall take
a new pofitiuo with refpeCt to the ftream and to the haw -
N S H I P.
fer. And we perfift in faying, that more information
will be got by this train of experiments than from any
mathematical theory : for all the theories of the impulfes
of fluids muft proceed on phyfical poftulates with refpeCl
to the motions of the filaments, which are exceedingly
conjeCtural. 2r
And it muft now be farther obferved, that the fub- The com-
ftitufion which we have made of an oblong paralielopi-
ped for a Ihip, although vrell fuited to give us clear no- an Ob!ong
lions of the fubjeCt, is of fmall ufe in praCtice ; for it is body is
next to impoffible (even granting the theory of oblique only ufe-
impulfions) to make this fubftitution. A ftfip is of a'^o gwe
form which is not reducible to equations j and therefore tlons on
the aCHon of the water on her bow or broadfide can only the fubjeCt.
be had by a moft laborious and intricate calculation for
almoft every fquare foot of its furface. (See Re'zouOs
Cours de Mathem. vol. v. p. 72, &c.) And this muft
be different for every fhip. But, which is more un¬
lucky, when we have got a parallelepiped which will
have the fame proportion of direCt and lateral refiftance
for a particular angle of leewvay, it wall not anfwer for
another leeway of the fame fhip } for when the leeway
changes, the figure aCtually expofed to the aCtion of the
water changes alfo. When the leeway is increafed,
mote of the lee-quarter is aCted on by the water, and a
part of the weather-bow is now removed from its aCtion.
Another parallelepiped muft therefore be difeovered,
whofe refiltances (hall fuit this new pofition of the keel
with refpeCt to the real courfe of the {hip.
We therefore beg leave to recommend this train of
experiments to the notice of the Association for the
Improvement of Naval Architecture as a very
promifing method for afeertaining this important point.
And we proceed, in the next place, to afeertain the re¬
lation between the velocity of the ftfip and that of the
wind, modified as they may be by the trim of the fails
and the obliquity of the impulfe. 22
Let AB (fig/4, 5, and 6.) reprefent the horizontal The rela-
feCtion of a Ihip. In place of all the drawing fails, thatUon be-
is, the fails which are really filled, we can always fubfti-^ef
tute one fail of equal extent* trimmed to the fame angle tjie fhip
with the keel. This being fuppofed attached to the and wind
yard DCD, let this yard be firft of all at right angles aReitamed-
to the keel, as reprefented in fig. 4. Let the winu'W’^'
blow in the direction WC, and let CE (in the direction
WC continued) reprefent the velocity V of the wind.
Let CF be the velocity v of the fhip. It muft alfo be
in the direction of the flrip’s motion, beeaufe when the
fail is at right angles to the keel, the abfolute impulfe-
on the fail is in the direction of the keel, and there is
no lateral impulfe, and confequently no leeway. Draw
EF, and complete the parallelogram CFE<?, producing
e<Z through the centre of the yard to w. Then w C
will be the relative or apparent direCtion of the wind,
and C e or FE will be its apparent or relative velocity :
For if the line C be carried along CF, keeping always
parallel to its firft pofition, and if a particle of air move
uniformly along CE (a fixed line in abfulute fpace) in
the fame time, this particle will always be found in that
point of CE where is is interfeCled at that inftant by
the moving line C ; fo that if C <? were a tube, the par¬
ticle of air, which really moves in the line CE, would al¬
ways be found in the tube C e. While CE is the real
direction of the wind, C <? will be the pofition of the
vane
SEAMAN S II I P.
8»
vane at the maft head, which will therefore mark the
apparent direftion of the wind, or its motion relative
to the moving fhip.
We may conceive this in another way. Suppofe a
cannon-lhot fired in the direction CE at the palling Ihip,
and that it paffes through the malt at C with the velo¬
city of the wind. It will not pafs through the off-fide
of the fhip at P, in the line CE : for while the flrot
moves from C to P, the point P has gone forward, and
the point p is now in the place where P wras when the
(hot pafled through the maft. The ihot wdll therefore
pafs through the Ihip’s fide in the point />, and a perfon
on hoard feeing it pafs through C and p wTill fay that its
2 ^ motion w as in the line C/>.
When a Thus it happens, that when a Ihip is in motion the
ft' - -’•1 apparent dire&ion of the wnnd is always ahead of its
motion the reaj diredlion. The line uj C is always found within
dm dtion oft^!e an^e WCB. It is eafy to fee from the conftruc-
the wind tion, that the difference between the real and apparent
isal ■■■ays direffions of the wind is lo much the more remarkable
different as t}ie velocity of the Ihip is greater : For the angle
reaTd'irec WC w or EC e depends on the magnitude of E £> or
tion. in proportion to CE. Perfons not much accuf-
tomed to attend to thefe matters are apt to think all at¬
tention to this difference to be nothing but affedtation
of nicety. They have no notion that the velocity of a
Ihip can have any fenfible proportion to that of the
wind. “ Swift as the wind” is a proverbial expref-
ffon ; yet the velocity of a Ihip always bears a very fen¬
fible proportion to that of the wind, and even very fre¬
quently exceeds it. We may form a pretty exadt no¬
tion of the velocity of the wind by obferving the Iha-
dows of the fummer clouds flying along the face of a
country, and it may be very well meafured by this me¬
thod. The motion of fuch clouds cannot be very diffe¬
rent from that of the air below ; and when the preffure
of the wind on a flat furface, while blowing with a ve¬
locity meafured in this way, is compared with its pref¬
fure when its velocity is meafured by more unexcep¬
tionable methods, .they are found to agree with all de-
firable accuracy. Nowr obfervations of this kind fre¬
quently repeated, {how that w’hat we call a pleafanl
briik gale blows at the rate of about 10 miles an hour,
or about 15 feet in a fecond, and exerts a preflure of
half a pound on a fquare foot. Mr Smeaton has fre¬
quently obferved the fails of a windmill, driven by fuch
a wind, moving fafter, nay much faffer, towards their
extremities, fo that the fail, inffead of being prefled to
the frames on the arms, v.'as taken aback, and flutter¬
ing on them. Nay, w7e know that a good (hip, with
all her fails fet and the wind on the beam, will in fuch
a fituation fail above ten knots an hour in finooth wTa-
ter. There is an obfervation made by every experienced
feaman, which fhows this difference between the real and
apparent directions the wind very diftindiy. When
a (hip that is failing brdkly with the wind on the beam
tacks about, and then fails equally well on the other
tack, the wind always appears to have (hifted and come
more ahead. This is familiar to all feamen. The fea¬
man judges of the dire^ion of the wind by the pofition
of tl e {hip’s vanes. Suppofe the {hip-Tailtng due weft on
the ftarboard tack, with the wind apparently N. N. W
thr vane pmnt'rg S. S. E. If the flijr put about, and
{lands due naff on th ■ Inboard tack, the vane will be .
found no longer to point S. S. E. but perhaps S.S.W. the
4
wind appearing N.N.E. and the flap muff be nearly clofe-
hauled in order to make an eatt courfe. The wind ap¬
pears to have fliifted four points. If the fliip tacks '
again, the wind returns to its old quarter. We have
often obferved a greater difference than this. The ce- f ^
lebrated aftronomer Dr Bradley, taking the amufement
of {ailing in a pinnace on the river Thames, obferved Bradley on
this, and was turprifed at it, imagining that the change this fubjedl.
of wind was owing to the approaching to or retiring
from the fliore. The boatmen told him that it always
happened at fea, and explained it to him in the belt
manner they were able. The explanation itruck him,
and let him a mufing on an aftronomical phenomenon
which he had been puzzled by for fome years, and
which he called THE aberration of the fixed
stars. Every ffar changes its place a fmall matter
for half a year, and returns to it at the completion of
the year. He compared the ffream of light from the
ftar to the wind, and the telefcope of the allronomer to
the ffiip’s vane, while the earth was like the {hip, mo¬
ving in oppofite directions when in the oppofite points
of its orbit. The telelcope muff aUvays be pointed a-
head of the real direction of the ftar, in the fame man¬
ner as the vane is always in a direction ahead of the
wind 5 and thus- he afeertained the progreflive motion
of light, and difeovered the proportion of its velocity
to the velocity of the earth in its orbit, by obferving
the deviation which was neceflarily given to the tele¬
fcope. Obferving that the light {bitted its diredtion
about zj-O", he concluded its velocity to be about 11,000
times greater than that of the earth ; juff as the intelli¬
gent feaman would conclude from this apparent ffiifting
of the wind, that the velocity of the wind is about
triple that of the fhip. This is indeed the beft method
for difeovering the velocity of the wind. Let the di-
redtion of the vane at the maft-head be very accurately
noticed on both tacks, and let the velocity of the {hip
be alfo accurately meafured. The angle between the
diredtions of the fhip’s head on thefe different tacks be¬
ing halved, will give the real diredtion of the wind,
which muff be compared with the pofition of the vane
in order to determine the angle contained between the
real and apparent diredlions of the wind or the angle
EC e ; or half of the obferved fluffing of the wind will
fliow the inclination of its true and apparent diredfions,
This being found, the proportion of EC to FC (fig. 6.)
is eafily meafured.
We have been very particular on this point, becaufe
fince the mutual adtions’ of bodies depend on their rela¬
tive motions only, we fliould make prodigious miftakes if
we eftimated the adfion of the wind by its real diredfion
and velocity, when they differ fo much from the rela¬
tive or apparent.
We now refume the inveftigation of the velocity of Velocity of
the (hip (fig. 4.), having its fails at right angles to thea
keel, and the wind blowing in the diredlion and with ('v^t n lts
the velocity CE, while the fhip proceeds in the direc-rf(!htare at
tion of the keel with the velocity CF. Produce E e, angles to
which is parallel to BC, till it meet the yard in g, and the keekj
draw FG perpendicular to E^. Let a reprefent the
angle WCD, contained between the fail and the real
diredlion of the wind, and let b be the' angle of trim
DCB. CE the velocity of the wind was expreffed by
V, and CF the velocity of the fliip by v.
The abfolute impulfe on the fail is (by the ufual
theory
S E A M A
theory) proportional to the fquare of the relative velo¬
city, and to the fquare of the line of the angle of inci¬
dence ; that is, to FE* X fin.1 w CD. Now the
angle GFE rr xo CD, and EG is equal to FExfin.
GFE ; and EG is equal to E g—g G. But E g~
EC X fin. EC^, rrVxfin. a; and ^ G=CF, =zv.
Therefore EG == V X fin. a—d, and the impulfe is
proportional to V x fin. a—v1. If S reprefent the fur-
face of the fail, the impulfe, in pounds, will be n S(Vx
fin. a—v')i.
Let A be the furface which, when it meets the wa¬
ter perpendicularly with the velocity v, will fuftain the
fame preflure or refiftance which the bows of the Ihip
actually meets with. This impulfe, in pounds, will be
m A f*. Therefore, becaufe we are confidering the
fhip’s motion as in a Hate of uniformity, the two pref-
fures balance each other $ and therefore m A v%z=n S (V
N s H I P.
81
X fin. a—v)*,
and — A
S (V X fin. a—x;)* j
therefore v- X vz=a/SxV X fin. a—<y y'S, and
v=
s/sx'yxfin. Vxfin. VX fin. a
' m A V A
+ 1
We fee, in the firft place, that the velocity of the
ftiip is (c&terisparibus') proportional to the velocity of
the wind, and to the fine of its incidence on the fail
jointly *, for while the furface of the fail S and the
equivalent furfaee for the bow remafns the fame, v in-
creafes or diminifhes at the fame rate with V • fin. a.—
When the wind is right aftern, the fine of a is unity,
V
and then the (hip’s velocity is m A
n S
■ i.
Note, that the denominator of this fra&ion is a com¬
mon number } for m and n are numbers, and A and S
A
being quantities of one kind, — is alfo a number.
It muft alfo be carefully attended to, that S expreffes
a quantity of fail actually receiving wind with the in¬
clination a. It will not always be true, therefore, that
the velocity will increafe as the wind is more abaft, be¬
caufe fome fails will then becalm others. This obferva-
tion is not, however, of great importance ; for it is very
unufual to put a (hip in the fituation confidered hither¬
to ; that is, with the yards fquare, unlefs (lie be right
before the wind.
If we would difcover the relation between the velo¬
city and the quantity of fail in this fimple cale of the
V
wind right aft, obferve that the equation v—
J-
n S
+ r.
A
gives us
im ^ * xr 
and —— x>*—V—v*
n b
V, and
n S
n b
and —- zz
u rr V — x/,
a — 7T7 r* j and becaufe
m A (V—x;)* 7
n and m and A are conilant quantities, S is propor-
. v*
tional to or the furface of fail is proportional
to the fquare of the (hip’s velocity dire&ly, and to the
fquare of the relative velocity inverfely. Thus, if a (bin
Vol. XIX. Part I. * > v
be failing with one-eighth of the velocity of the wind,
and we would have her (ail with one-fourth of it, we mud
quadruple the fail. J his is more eaiily feen in another
way. 1 he velocity of the (hip is proportional to the ve¬
locity of the wind j and therefore the relative veloci¬
ty is alfo proportional to that of the wind, and the
impulfe of the wind is as the fquare of the relative velo¬
city. Therefore, in order to increafe the relative velo¬
city by an increafe of fail only, we mud make this in¬
creafe of fail in the duplicate proportion of the increafe
of velocity.
Let us, in the next place, confider the motion of a
drip whole fails (land oblique to the keel.
The condru£Hon for this purpole differs a little from Tts velocity
the former, becaufe, when the fails are trimmed to any wher. the
oblique petition DCB (fig. 5. and 6.), there mud be al!,li.5 ftand
deviation from the direftion of the keel, or a leeway
BC b. Call this x. Let CF be the velocity of rhe (hip. C EC " -
Draw, as before, £_§• perpendicular to the yard, andJIS-5‘an
FG perpendicular to E^y alio draw FFI perpendicu¬
lar to the yard : then, as before, EG, which is in the
fubduplicate ratio of the impulfe on the fail, is equal to
Now E^ is, as before, —V X fin. rt, and
is equal to FH, which is =CFxfin. FCH, or —
^ Xfin. Therefore we have the impulfe =« S
(V • fin. a—v • fin.
1 his expreflron of the impulfe is perfedlly fimilar to
that in the former cafe, its only difference confiding ir*
the fubdu&ive part, which is here x>xfin. b-\-x indead!
of v.' But it expreffes the fame thing as before, viz.
the diminution of the impulfe. The impulfe being rec¬
koned folely in the diredfion perpendicular to the fail,
it is diminiflred folely by the fail withdrawing itfelf in
that direction from the wind j and as ^ E may be confi¬
dered as the real impulfive motion of the wind, GE
mud be confidered as the relative and effe<ffive impulfive
motion. The impulfe vrould have been the fame had
the drip been at red, and had the wind met it perpen¬
dicularly with the velocity GE.
We mud now drew the connexion between this im- r ^
pulfe and the motion of the drip. The fail, and con-tionbe0-’
fequently the drip, is preffed by the wind in the direc- tween tho
tion Cl perpendicular to the fail or yard with the force iml,ulie
which we have jud now determined. This (in the date aj?d ^i01*
of uniform motion) muff be equal and oppofite to ^ot the
aftion of the water. Draw IL at right angles to the
keel. The impulfe in the direttion Cl (which we may
meafure by Cl) is equivalent to the impulfes CL and
LI. By the fird the (hip is impelled right forward
and by the fecond (he is driven fidewife. Therefore
we mud have a leeway, and a lateral as well as a direft
refidance. We fuppofe the form of the (hip to be
known, and therefore the proportion is known, or dif-
coverable, between the direct and lateral refidances cor-
refponding to every angle of leeway. Let A be the
furface wdrofe perpendicular refidance is equal to the di¬
rect refidance ot toe (hip correfpondrng to the leeway
x, that is, whofe refidance is equal to the refidance real¬
ly felt by the (hip’s bows in the diredion of the keel
when die is^ failing with this leeway ; and let B in like
manner be the furface whofe perpendicular refidance is
equal to the actual refidance to the diip’s motion in thq
direftion LI, perpendicular to the keel. (AT. B. This
is not equivalent to A and B' adapted to the reftaixmlar
box, but to A! • cof. * # and B' • fin. * *.) We liave
therefore
82
SEAMANSHIP.
therefore A : B = CL : LI, and LIrr:
CLB
Alfo,
becaufe Cl—v/CL2-f-LP. v;e have A : ^ A2 -f- B2=z
CL : Cl, and CIrr —. The refiftance in
the direftion LC is properly meafured by ot A ■u\ as
has been already obferved. Therefore the refiftance in
the direiflion IC muft; be expreffed by m ^-f- BJ j v*;
or (making C the furface which is equal to>^/A24-B*,
and which will therefore have the fame perpendicular
refiftance to the water having the velocity v) it may be
expreffed by »z C v*.
Therefore, becaufe there is an equilibrium between
the impulfe and refiftance, we have m C vz—n S (V •
fin. a—v • fin. b-\-xy and — C “u*, or q Ct;1—S (V* fin.
a—v ' fin. £-J-a)*, and q \/ C v= y/ S (V • fin. a—v'
fin. ^4-a).
S'V-fin. a
Therefore v —
V • fin. a
^ y' C -ft- v' S • fin. _j_.v 5
Sin. a
- — V
1 q -ft- fin. b -ft x.
>y/ S
ever may be the angle ECD, fo long as the angle TCI
is conftant.
We alfo fee that it is very poftible for the velocity
of the (hip on an oblique courle to exceed that of
the wind. This will be the cafe when the number
Obferve that the quantity which is the coefficient
of V in this equation is a common number } for fin. a
is a number, being a decimal fraftion of the radius I,
Sin. b-\-x is alfo a number, for the fame reafon. And
fince m and n were numbers of pounds, — or ^ is a
common number. And becaufe C and S are furfaces,
C
or quantities of one kind, -g- is alfo a common num¬
ber.
This is the fimpleft expreffion that we can think of
for the velocity acquired by the ffiip, though it muft
be acknowledged to be too complex to be of very
prompt ufe. It,s complication arifes from the necefiity
of introducing the leeway x. I his affedfs the whole of
the denominator \ for the furface C depends on it, be-
cau fe C is rr ^A’ + and A and B are analogous
,,§ to A' cof. ax and B' fin. 1 x.
Important But we can deduce fome important confequences from
confequen- this theorem.
ces dedu- While the furface S of the fail adlually filled by the
the fore1 wind remains the fame, and the angle DCB, which in
goino theo- future we ffiall call the Trim of the fails, alfo remains
lem.’ the fame, both the leeway * and the fubftituted furface
C remains the fame. The denominator is therefore con-
flant; and the velocity of the Ihip is proportional to
y' S-V‘ fin. <7 ; that is, diredlly as the velocity of the
wind, diredlly as the abfolute inclination of the wind
to the yard, and diredlly as the fquare root of the fur¬
face of the fails.
We alfo learn from the conftrudlion of the figure that
FG parallel to the yard cuts CE in a given ratio. For
CF is in a conftant ratio to E^, as has been juft now
demonftrated. And the angle DCF is conftant. There¬
fore CF-fin. £, or FH or G^, is proportional to E^,
and OC to EC, or EC is cut in one proportion, what-
fin. a
^ q-^—ft fin. b -ft x
exceeds unity, or when fin. a is
greater than V fin.b-\-x. Now this may eafily
be by fufficiently enlarging S and diminilhing £-ft*. It
is indeed frequently feen in fine failers with all their fails
fet and not hauled too near the wind.
We remarked above that the angle of leeway .r af-
fefts the whole denominator of the fra&ion which ex-
preffes the velocity. Let it be obferved that the angle
JCL is the complement of LCD, or of b. I he re fore,
CL : LI, or A : B = i : tan. ICL, = I : cot. b, and
B—A- cotan. b. Now A is equivalent to A'' cof. 1 xy
and thus b becomes a function of x. C is evidently fo,
being v/A2-ftB\ Therefore before the value of this
fraction can be obtained, wx muft be able to compute,
by our knowledge of the form of the fhip, the value of
A for every angle x of leeway. Ibis can be done omy
by refolving her bows into a great number of elementary
planes, and computing the impulfes on each and adding
them into one ium. A he computation is of immenie la¬
bour, as may be leen by one example given by Bouguer.
When the leeway is but (mall, not exceeding ten de¬
grees, the fubftitution of the rectangular prifm of one
determined form is abundantly exaCt for ail leeways con¬
tained within this limit j and we ffiall foon fee reafon
for being contented with this approximation. We may
now make ufe of the formula expreffing the velocity for
folvmg the chief problems in this part of the feaman s
talk. #
And fir ft let it be required to determine the belt pofi- probjem j.
lion of the fail for Handing on a given courfe a b, when To deter-
CE the direction and velocity of the wind, and its angle mine the
with the courfe WCF, are given. This problem has^
exercifed the talents of the mathematicians ever fince failsfor
the days of Newton. In the article Pneumatics weftanchng
gave the folution of one very nearly related to it, name-on a given
ly, to determine the pofition of the fail which would
produce the greateft impulfe in the direCfion of the^ire(q;on
courfe. The folution was to place the yard CD in fuch and veloci-
a pofition that the tangent of the angle I CD may be ty of the
one half of the tangent of the angle DCW. This wiH.^md and
indeed be the beft pofition of the fail for beginning
motion ; but as foon as the fhip begins to move in thecourfe are
direCfion CF, the effeClive impulfe of the wind is di-given,
miniffied, and alfo its inclination to the fail. The
angle DC-iu diminifhes continually as the ffiip accele¬
rates •, for CF is now accompanied by its equal e E,
and by an angle EC e or WC w. CF increafes, and
the impulfe on the fail diminifhes, till an equilibrium
obtains between the refiftance of the water and the im¬
pulfe of the wind. The impulfe is now meafured by
CE2xfin‘* e CD inftead of CE2xftn*1 ECD, that is, by
EG2 inftead of Eg1. . _ .
This introduefion of the relative motion of the wind
renders the aCfual folution of the problem extremely
diffirnll.
S E A M A
difficult. It is very eafily expreffed geometrically :
Divide the angle iv CF in inch a manner that the tan¬
gent of DCF may be half of the tangent of DC w, and
the problem may be conltrudled geometrically as fol¬
lows.
*7. Let WCF (fig. 7.) be the angle between the fail and
courfe. Round the centre C defcribe the circle WDFY •,
produce WC to Q, fo that CQbrrjWC, and draw QY
parallel to CF cutting the circle in Y ; bifect the arch
WY in D, and draw DC. DC is the proper pofition
of the yard.
Draw the chord WY, cutting CD in V and CF in
T ; draw the tangent PD cutting CF in S and CY
in R.
It is evident that WY, PR, are both perpendicular
to CD, and are bife£led in V and D ; therefore (by
reafon of the parallels QY, Cb) 4:3“ QW : CW,
—YW : TW, rzRP : SP. Therefore PD : PS=2 :3,
and PD : DS = 2 : 1. E. D. But this divifion
cannot be made to the heft advantage till the {hip has
attained its greateft velocity, and the angle U’ CF has
been produced.
We tnuft confider all the three angles, a, b, and x, as
variable in the equation which exprcffes the value of v,
and we muft make the fluxion of this equation ~ 0;
then, by means of the equation B = A* cotan. b, we
muft obtain the value of b and of b in terms of x and x.
With refpeft to a, obferve, that if we make the angle
WCF—/), we have p— a-\-b-\-x ; and p being a con-
ftant quantity, we have rf-j-^-j-Arro. Subftituting for
<?, b, n, and b, their values in terms of x and x, in the
fluxionary equation — 0, we readily obtain x, and then
a and b, which folves the problem.
Let it be required, in tbe next place, to determine
the courfe and the trim of the fails moft proper for ply-
ing to windward.
Problem IL I'1 fig- 6. draw7 FP perpendicular to WC. CF is the
To deter- motion of the fhip ; but it is only by the motion PC
mine the ^},at {]ie g?3ns to windward. Now7 CP is — CF X
C0 " ofThe c°ftn* WCF, or • cofin. This muft; be ren¬
dered a maximum, as follow’s.
By means of the equation which exprefles the value
of v and the equation B=A* cotan. b, we exterminate
the quantities v and b; wre then take the fluxion of the
quantity into which the expreffion v ‘ cat. (abx)
is changed by this operation. Making this tluxion —0,
w7e get the equation wffiich muft folve the problem.
This equation will contain the tw7o variable quantities
a and x w7ith their fluxions ; then make the coefficient
of x equal to 0, alfo the coefficient of a equal to 0. This
wall give two equations which will determine a and x,
31 and from this w7e get b—p—a—x.
Problem III. Should it be required, in the third place, to find the
ndiu- the" keft- courfe and trim of the fails for getting away from
belt courfe a given line of coaft CM (fig. 6.), the procefs perfeftly
and trim of refembles this laft, wffiich is in fa£t getting away from
the fails tor a ]jne 0f coaft which makes a right angle with the wand,
wsv from Therefore, in place of the angle WCF, w7e muft fubfti-
tule the angle WCMrfcrWCF. Call this angle e. Wre
muft make v • cof. (ez±zaz±zbz±zXs) a maximum. The
analytical procefs is the fame as the former, only c is
here a conftant quantity.
Thefe are the three principal problems which can be
tmnson thep0jve(j means of the knowledge that we have obtain-
preceding J 0
problems.
trim
{.rib. mod
proper for
plying to‘
windward
way from
a given
line of
coaft.
3*
Obferva-
N S H I F. 83
ed of the motion of the fhip when impelled by an ob¬
lique fail, and therefore making leeway 3 and they may
be confidered as an abftraft of this part of M. Bouguer’s
work. We have only pointed out the procefs for this
folution, and have even omitted fome things taken no¬
tice of by M. Bezout in his very elegant compendium.
Our reafons wall appear as we go on. The learned read¬
er will readily fee the extreme difficulty of the fubjetft,
and the immenfe calculations which are neceffary even
in the fnr.pleft cafes, and will grant that it is out of the
power of any but an expert analyft to derive any ufe
from them 3 but the mathematician can calculate tables
for the ufe of the praftical feaman. Thus he can calcu¬
late the beft pofition of the fails for advancing in a courfe
90° from the wind, and the velocity in that courfe ; 3-
then for 85*, 8o°, 750, &c. M. Bouguer has given aM. liou-
table of this kind 3 but to avoid the immenfe difficulty 5ue^’s tabI@
©f the procefs, he has adapted it to the apparent direc-^
tion of the wind. We have inferted a few of his num-p 4jtiori 0f
bers, fuited to fuch cafes as can be of fervice, namely, the fans for
when all the fails draw, or none ftand in the way of^vanang
others. Column ift is the apparent angle of the wind^‘^7
and courfe 3 column 2d is the correfponding angle of the
fails and keel 3 and column 3d is the apparent angle of
the fails and wind.
1
iv CF
103°53/
99 J3
94 25
89 28
84 23
79 06
73 39
68 —
DCB
4203c'
40 —
37 3°
35 —
32 3°
30 —
27 30
25 —
3
<iv CD
6i°23'
59 l3
56 55
54 28
51 53
49 06
46 09
43 ~
In all thefe numbers we have the tangent of w CD
double of the tangent of DCF. 34
But this is really doing but little for the feaman. Inutility of
The apparent direction of the wind is unknown to him|!ite.,e^alcu"
till the fhip is failing with uniform velocity 3 and he is a
fiill uninformed as to the leeway. It is, however, of fer¬
vice to him to know, for inftance, that when the angle
of the vanes and yards is 56 degrees, the yard fttould be -
braced up to 370 30', &c.
But here occurs a new difficulty. By the conftruc-
tion of a fquare-rigged fhip it is impoffible to give the
yards that inclination to the keel which the calculation
requires. Few fhips can have their yards braced up to
370 30' 3 and yet this is required in order to have an in¬
cidence of 56°, and to hold a courfe 940 25' from the
apparent direftion of the wind, that is, with the wind
apparently 40 25' abaft the beam. A good failing fhip
in this pofition may acquire a velocity even exceeding
that of the wind. Let us fuppofe it only one half of
this velocity. We fhall find that the angle WCu» is in
this cafe about 290, and the fhip is nearly going 1230
from the wind, with the wind almoft perpendicular to
the fail 3 therefore this utmoft bracing up of the fails
is only giving them the pofition fuited to a wind broad
on the quarter. It is impoffible therefore to comply
with the demand of the mathematician, and the feaman
muft be contented to employ alefs favourable difpofition
of his fails in all cafes where his courfe does not lie at
lead eleven points from the wind.
L 2 Let
84
'Fig. S.
35
To deter¬
mine the
foeft courfe
for avoid¬
ing a rock.
S E A M A
i.el us fee whether this reftriction, anting from ne-
ceflity, leaves any thing in our choice, and makes one
courfe preferable to another. We fee that there are a
prodigious number of courfes, and thefe the moft ufual
and the moft important, which we muft hold with one
trim of the fails; in particular, failing with the wind on
the beam, and all cafes of plying to windward, muft be
performed with this unfavourable trim of the fails. We
are certain that the fmaller we make the angle of inci¬
dence, real or apparent, the fmaller will be the velocity
of the (hip} but it may happen that we ftiall gain more
to windward, or get fooner away from a lee-coaft, or
any object of danger, by failing ftowly on one courfe
than by failing quickly on another.
We have feen that while the trim of the fails remains
the lame, the leeway and the angle of the yard and
courfe remains the fame, and that the velocity of the
Ihip is as the fine of the angle of real incidence, that is,
as the fine of the angle of the fail and the real direction
of the wind.
Let the fhip AB (fig. 8.) hold the courfe CF, with
tne wind blowing in the diredtion W^C, and having her
yards DCI) braced up to the fmallefi: angle BCD
which the rigging can admit. Let CF be to CE as
the velocity of the ftiip to the velocity of the wund j
join FE and draw C au parallel to EFj it is evident
that FE is the relative motion of the wind, and w CD
is the relative incidence on the fail. Draw FO parallel
to the yard DC, and defcribe a circle through the points
COF ; then we fay that if the {hip, with the fame wind
and the fame trim of the fame drawing fails, be made to
fail on any other courfe C/, her velocity along CF is
to the velocity along Cf as CF is to C/; or, in other
words, the (hip will employ the fame time in going from
C to any point of the circumference CFO.
Join /O. Then, becaufe the angles CFO, c fO are
on the fame chord CO, they are equal, and /O is pa¬
rallel to dC d, the new pofition of the yard correfpond-
ing to the new pofition of the keel a b, making the
angle d C Z'=DCB. Alfo, by the nature of the circle,
the line CF is to C/ as the fine of the angle CFO to
the fine of the angle CO/, that is (on account of the
parallels CD, OF and Cd, Of), as the fine of WCD
to the fine of WC d. But when the trim of the fails
remains the fame, the velocity of the (hip is as the fine
of the angle of the fail with the dire&ion of the wind ;
therefore CF as to Of as the velocity on CF to that on
Of and the propofition is demonftrated.
Let it now be required to determine the heft courfe
for avoiding a rock R lying in the direaion CR, or for
withdrawing as fall as poflible from a line of coaft PQ.
Draw CM through R, or parallel to PQ, and let mbe
the middle of the arch C m M. It is plain that m is the
molt remote from CM of any point of the arch C M,
ami taeiefore the fhip will recede farther from the coaft
PQ in any given time by holding the courfe C m than
by any other courfe.
This courfe is eafily determined ; for the arch OmM
~s6o (arch CO -f- arch OM), and the arch CO
is the meafure of twice the angle CFO, or twice the
angle DCB, or twice b + x, and the arck OM mea-
fures twice the angle ECM.
Thus, fuppofe the fharpeft poflible trim of the fails
to be 3 -°, and the obferved angle ECM to be 70° •
*nei1 CO+OM is 7Oo-J-i40° or 210°. This being ta-
N S H I P.
ken from 360°, leaves 150°, of which the half M m is
75°> and the angle MC/// is 370 30k This added to
ECM makes EC/// 107° 30', leaving WC m—^20 30',
and the fhip muft hold a courfe making an angle of
72® 30' with the real dire&ion of the wind, and WCD
will be 370 30'.
This iuppofes no leeway. But if we know that un-.
der all the fail which the fhip can carry with fafety and
advantage fhe makes 5 degrees of leeway, the angle
DC m of the lail and courie, or b-!f-x, is 40°. Then
CO-f-OM—220°, which being taken from 360° leaves
140°, of which the half is 7°°? m, and the angle
MC m — 350, and EC m — 105°, and WC /// = 750,
and the fhip muft lie with her head 70° from the wind,
making 5 degrees of leeway, and the angle WCD is
35\
J he general rule for the pofition of the (hip is, t/uit
the line on fhipboard which bifetls the angle b-}-x may
alfo bifedi the angle WCM, or make the angle between
the courfe and the line from which we with to withdraw
equal to the angle between the fail and the real direc¬
tion of the wind. ^5
It is plain that this problem includes that of plying Corollari£&
to windward. We have only to fuppofe ECM to be
90° j then, taking our example in the fame fhip, with
the fame trim and the fame leeway, we have
This taken from 90® leaves 50° and WC«—90—25=
65, and the fhip’s head muft lie 6o°from the w’ind, and
the yard muft be 25° from it.
It muft be obferved here, that it is not always eligi-
ble to fele& the courie which will remove the fhip fart-
eft from the given line CM j it may be more prudent to
remove from it more fecurely though more flowly. In
fuch cafes the procedure is very fimple, viz. to fhape
the courfe as near the wind as is poflible.
1 he reader will alfo eafily fee that the propriety of
thefe pra&ices is confined to thofe courfes only where
the pra&icable trim of the fails is not fufficiently fharp.
Whenever the courfe lies fo far from the wind that it is
poflible to make the tangent of the apparent angle of
the wfind and fail double the tangent of the fail and
courfe, it fliould be done.
Thefe are the chief pra&ical confequences whicti can Xjje3a^jlt{4_
be deduced from the theory. But w e fliould confider ment of the
how far this adjuftment of the fails and courfe can be fails fup(x>-
performed. And here occur difficulties fo great as to ^ tfie
make it almoft impraaicalile. We have always
led the pofition or the lurrace or the fail to be diftin&ly
obfervable and meafurable ; but this can hardly be af¬
firmed even with refpeft to a lail ftretched on a yard.
Here w'e fuppofed the furface of the fail to have the
fame inclination to the keel that the yard has. This is
by no means the cafe 5 the fail affumes a concave form,
of which it is almoft: impoflible to affign the dire&ion of
the mean impulfe. We believe that this is always con-
fiderably to leeward of a perpendicular to the yard, ly¬
ing between Cl and CE (fig. 6.). This is of fome ad¬
vantage, being equivalent to a (harper trim. We can¬
not affirm this, however, with any confidence, becaufe
it renders the impulfe on the weather-leech of the fail fo
exceedingly feeble as hardly to have any effe&. In
failing clofe to the wind the fhip is kept fo near that
the weather-leech of the fail is almoff ready to receive
the w-ind edgewife, and to flutter or fliiver. The moft
effe&ive or drawing fails with a fide-wind, efpecially
when
S E A M A
Tvhen plying to windward, are the ftayfails. We be¬
lieve that it is impoflible to fay, with any thing ap¬
proaching to precifion, what is the petition of the gene¬
ral furface of a ftayfail, or to calculate the intenfity and
direftion of the general impulfe j and we affirm with
confidence that no man can pronounce on thefe points
with any exaftnefs. If we can guefs within a third or
a fourth part of the truth, it is all we can pretend to ;
and after all, it is but a guefs. Add to this, the fails
coming in the way of each other, and either becalming
them or fending the wind upon them in a direction
widely different from that of its free motion. All thefe
points we think beyond our power of calculation, and
therefore that it is in vain to give the feaman mathema¬
tical rules, or even tables of adjuifment ready calcula¬
ted 5 fince he can neither produce that medium pofition
of his fails that is required, nor tell what is the pofition
which he employs.
This is one of the principal reafons why fo little ad¬
vantage has been derived from the very ingenious and
promifing difquifitions of Bouguer and other mathemati¬
cians, and has made us omit the a£tual folution of the
chief problems, contenting ourfelves with pointing out
the procefs to fuch readers as have a reliih for thefe ana-
,g lytical operations.
The theory But there is another principal reafon for the fmall
itfelf erro- progrefs which has been made in the theory of feaman-
aeous, fhip : This is the error of the theory itfelf, which fup-
pofes the impulfions of a fluid to be in the duplicate ra¬
tio of the fine of incidence. The moft careful compari-
fon which has been made between the reiults of this
theory and matter of fadt is to be feen in the experi¬
ments made by the members of the Royal Academy of
Sciences at Paris, mentioned in the article RESISTANCE
of Fluids. We fubjoin another abftraft of them in the
following table ; where col. lit gives the angie of inci¬
dence \ col. 2d gives the impulfions really obferved j
col. 3d the impulfes, had they followed the duplicate
ratio of the fines ; and col. 4th the impulfes, if they were
in the fimple ratio of the fines.
Angle
90
84
78
72
66
60
54
48
42
36
3°
24
18
12
6
ItnpuU
fion
• ferve-
IOOO
989
958
908
845
771
693
615
543
480
440
424
414
406
400
Impuil'e
Sine
IOCO
989
957
905
835
75°
655
552
4 48
346
250
!65
96
43
11
[mpulf;
as
Sine.
IOOO
99 i
978
951
9T4
866
809
743
669
587
coo
407
3°9
208
I°5
Here we fee an enormous difference in the great obli¬
quities. When the angle of incidence is only fix de¬
grees, the obferved impulfe is forty times greater than
N s H I P. 85
the theoretical impulfe j at 12° it is ten times greater j
at 18° it is more than four times greater 5 and at 24° it
is almoft three times greater. ^
No wonder then that the dedu&ions from this theory and the de-
are fo ufelefs and fo unlike what wTe familiarly obferve.duftions
We took notice of this when we were confidering the ufe*
leeway of a rectangular box, and thus law a reafon for
admitting an incomparably fmaller leeway than what
would reiult from the laborious computations neceffary
by the theory. This error in theory has as great an in¬
fluence on the impulfions of air when aCting obliquely
on a fail ; and the experiments of Mr Robins and of
the Chevalier Borda on the oblique impulfions of air are
perfectly conformable (as far as they go) to thofe of
the academicians on water. The oblique impulfions of
the wind are therefore much more efficacious for pref-
fing the fhip in the direction of her courfe than the
theory allows us to fuppofe j and the progrefs of a fhip
plying to windward is much greater, both becaufe the
oblique impulfes of the wind are more effeCtfve, and be¬
caufe the leeway is much fmaller, than we fuppofe.
Were not this the cafe, it would be impoffible for a.
fquare-rigged fhip to get to windward. The impulfe
on her fails when dole hauled would be fo trifling that
fhe would not have a third part of the velocity which
we fee her acquire : and this trilling velocity would be
wafted in leeway 5 for we have feen that the diminution
of the oblique impulfes of the water is accompanied by
an increafe of leeway. But wTe fee that in the great ob¬
liquities the impulfions continue to be very confiderable,
and that even an incidence of fix degrees gives an impulie
as great as the theory allows to an incidence of 40.
We may therefore, on all occafions, keep the yards
more fquare ; and the lofs which we fuftain by the dimi¬
nution of the very oblique impulfe will be more than
compenfated by its more favourable direCUon with re-
fpeCt to the fhip’s keel. Let us take an example of
this. Suppofe the wind about two points before the
beam, making an angle of 68° with the keel. The
theory afligns 43° for the inclination of the wfind to
the fail, and 150 for the trim of the fail. The perpen¬
dicular impulfe being fuppofed 1000, the theoretical im¬
pulfe for 450 is 465. This reduced in the proportion of
radius to the fine of 250, gives the impulfe in the direc¬
tion of the courfe only 197.
But if we eafe off the lee-braces till the yard makes an*
angle of 50° with the keel, and allows the wind an inci¬
dence of no more than i8f, we have the experimented
impulfe 414, which, when reduced in the proportion of
radius to the fine of 50°, gives an effe£five impulfe 317.
In like manner, the trim 56°, with the incidence I2°K,
gives an t'ffedlive impulfe 3374 and the trim 62°, with
the incidence only 6°, gives 353-
Hence it would at firff fight appear that the angle.
DCB of 62° and WCD of 6° would be better for hold
ing a courfe within fix points of the wind than any
more oblique pofition of the fails 5 but it will only give
a greater initial impulfe. As the fhip accelerates, the
wind apparently comes ahead, and we mufl continue to
brace up as the {hip frefhens her way. It is not unufual
for her to acquire half or two thirds of the velocity of
the wind ; in which cafe the wind comes apparently
ahead more than two points, when the yards mufl
be braced up to 350, and this allows an impulfe n©
greater than about 70. Now this is very frequently
obferved
86
40
Experi¬
ments pro¬
per for efta-
blifhing an¬
other
3 E A M A N S II I P.
obfei ved in good fitips, winch in a brilk gale and fmooth
water will go five or fix knots clofe hauled, the fhip’s
head fix points from the wind, and the fails no more
than juft full, but ready to Oliver by the fmalleft luff.
All this wrould be impoftible by the ufual theory ; and in
this refpeft thefe experiments of the French academy
gave a fine illuftration of the feaman’s practice. They
account for wdiat we fhould otherwife be much puzzled
to explain ; and the great progrefs which is made by
a fhip clofe hauled being perfedlly agreeable to what
we (hould expect from the lawr of oblique impulfion
deducible from thefe fo often mentioned experiments,
wdiile it is totally incompatible with the common theory,
fliould make us abandon the theory without hefitation,
and ftremioufly fet about the eftabiiftiment of another,
founded entirely on experiments. For this purpofe the
experiments fhould be made on the oblique impulfions
of air on as great a fcale as poftible, and in as great a
variety of circumftances, fo as to furnifh a feries of im¬
pulfions for all angles of obliquity. We have but four
or five experiments on this fubjed!, vi’Z. two by Mr
Robins and two or three by the Chevalier Borda. Ha¬
ving thus gotten a feries of impulfions, it is very practi¬
cable to raife on this foundation a practical inftitute, and
to give a table of the velocities of a ftvpfuited to every
angle of inclination and of trim ; for nothing is more
certain than the refolution of the impulfe perpendicular
to the fail into a force in the diredfion of the keel, and
a lateral force.
W e are alfo difpofed to think that experiments might
be made on a model very nicely rigged with fails, and
trimmed in every different degree, which, would point
out the mean diredlion of the impulfe on the fails, and
the comparative force of thefe impulfes in different di-
re61 ions of the wand. The method would be very fi-
milarto that for examining the impulfe of the wmter on
the hull. If this can alfo be afcertained experimental¬
ly, the intelligent reader will eafily fee that the wrhole
motion of a {hip under fail may be determined for every
cafe. Tables may then be conftrudled by calculation,
or by graphical operations, which will give the velo¬
cities of a fhip in every different courfe, and correfpon-
ding to every trim of fail. And let it be here obferved,
that the trim of the fail is not to be eftimated in de¬
grees of inclination gf the yards; becaufe, as w:e have
already remarked, we cannot obferve nor adjuft the la¬
teen fails in this way. But, in making the experiments
for afcertaining the impulfe, the exa61: pofition of the
tacks and fheets of the fails are to be noted \ and
this combination of adjufiments is to pafs by the name
of a certain trim. Thus that trim of all the fails
may be called 40, wbofe diredfion is experimentally
found equivalent to a fiat furface trimmed to the obli¬
quity 400.
Having done this, we may conftrudl a figure for each
trim fimilar to fig. 8. where, inftead of a circle, w^e fhall
have a curve C O M' F', whole chords CF', c f, &c.
are proportional to the velocities in thefe courfes ; and
by means of this curve wTe can find the point m', which
is moft remote Tom any line CM from w hich we wifli to
withdraw : and thus we may folve all the principal pro¬
blems of the art.
We hope that it will not be accounted prefumpiion
in us to expe61: more improvement from a theory
founded on judicious experiments only, than from a
theory of the impulfe of fluids, which is found fo in-
confiftent with oblervation, and of whole fallacy all its
authors, from Newton to D’Alembert, entertained
ftrong fufpicions. Again, we beg leave to recommend 41
this view of the fubjedt to the attention of the SociET'/rec°m
for the Improvement" of Naval Architecture.™enclec!.!o
Should thele patriotic gentlemen entertain a favourable
opinion of the plan, and honour us with their corre-provement
fpondence, we will cheerfully impart to them our no-or Naval
tions of the way in which both thefe trains of experi-A!C*11tec*
ments may be profecuted with fuccefs, and rcfults ob-tl‘re‘
tained in which we may confide •, and u'e content our-
felves at prefent with offering to the public thefe hints,
which are not the fpeculations of a man of mere fcience,
but of one who, with a competent knowledge of the
lawrs of mechanical nature, has the experience of feveral
years fervice in the royal navy, where the art of work¬
ing of {hips was a favourite objedf of his Icier.tific at¬
tention.
With thsfe obfervations we conclude our difcuffion ofMeans em-
the firft part of the leaman’s talk, and now proceed to pieced to
confider the means that are employed to prevent or toPrever,t or
produce any deviations from the uniform re6tilineal courfe de~
which has been fele61ed. f10m 3
Here the {hip is to be confidered as a body in free cun te.
fpace, convertible round her centre of inertia. For
whatever may be the point round which {lie turns, this
motion may always be confidered as compounded of a
rotation round an axis pafiing through her centre of
gravity or inertia. She is impelled by the wind and by
the water ailing on many furfaces differently inclined
to each other, and the impulfe on each is perpendicular
to the furface. In order therefore that ftie may con¬
tinue fieadily in one courfe, it is not only neceffary that
the impelling forces, eftimated in their mean diredtion,
be equal and oppofite to the refilling forces eftimated
in their mean dire61ion ; but alfo that thefe two direc¬
tions may pafs through one point, otherwife fine will be
affe61ed as a log of wrood is when puftred in oppofite
diredlions by two forces, which are equal indeed, but
are applied to different parts of the log. A fhip muft
be cor.fidered as a lever, acted on in different parts by
forces in different dire6tions, and the whole balancing
each other round that point or axis where the equiva¬
lent of all the refilling forces paffes. This may be con¬
fidered as a point fupported by this refilling force and
as a fort of fulcrum : therefore, in order that the Ihip
may maintain her pofition, the energies or momenta of all
the impelling forces round this point muft balance each
other. ^
When a {hip fails right afore the w ind, with her yards Impulfes
fquare, it is evident thai the impulfes on each fide of the on a flap’
keel are equal, as alfo their mechanical momenta round fifing right
any axis palling perpendicularly through the keel. Sobefoie;it|’e
are the adhonsof the wuiter on her bow s. But when lhe(nt from
fails on an oblique ccurfe, with her yards braced up onthofe on
either fide, fhe fuftains a preffure in the dire6Hon Cl her when
(fig. y.) perpendicular to the fail. This, by giving her|a^'nS °h-
a lateral preffure LI, as w-ell as a preffure CL ahead, u*ue
caufes her to make leeway, and to move in a line C b in¬
clined to CB. By this means the balance of adticn on
the two bows is deftroyed ; the general impulfe on the
lee-bow is increafed ; and that on the weather-bow? is di¬
mini Ihed.
2
8y
SEA M A
minlfhed. The combined impulfe is therefore no longer
in the direftion BC, but (in the ftate of uniform mo¬
tion) in the direction IC.
Suppofe that in an indant the whole fails are annihi¬
lated and the impelling preffure Cl, which ptecifely ba¬
lanced the refilling preiTure on the bows, removed. 1 he
drip tends, by her inertia, to proceed in the direction
Cl. This tendency produces a continuation of tne re-
fiilance in the oppofite diredlion IC, which is not di¬
rectly oppofed to the tendency of the {hip in the direc¬
tion C ; therefore the drip’s head would immediately
come up to the wind. The experienced feamen will re¬
coiled fomething like this when the fails are fuddenly
lowered when coming to anchor. It does not hap¬
pen folely from the obliquity of the action on the bows :
It would happen to the parallelepiped of fig. 2. wnich
was fultaining a lateral impulfion B’fin.3ar, and a diredt
impulnon A cof.3 x. Thefe are continued for a mo¬
ment after the annihilation of the lad : but being no
longer oppofed by a force in the direction CD, but by
a force in the direction C £, the force B • fin.3 x mult
prevail, and the body is not only retarded in its motion,
but its head turns towards the wind. But this efDdt
of the leeway is greatly increafed by the curved form
of the fhip’s bows. This occafions the centre of effort
of all the impullions of the water on the leefide of the
{hip to be very far forward, and this fo much the more
remarkably as fhe is (harper afore. It is in general not
much abaft the foremalt. Now the centre of the fhip’s
tendency to continue her motion is the fame with her
centre of gravity, and this is generally but a little be¬
fore the mainmaft. She is therefore in the fame con¬
dition nearly as if the were pulhed at the mainmaft in
a diredlion parallel to C b, and at the foremalt by a
force parallel to IC. The evident confequence of this
is a tendency to come up to the wind. This is inde¬
pendent of all fituation of the fails, provided only that
they have been trimmed obliquely.
This tendency of the drip’s head to windward is call¬
ed GRIPING in the Teaman’s language, and is greatelt
in drips which are drarp forward, as we have laid al¬
ready. This circumftance is eafily underdood. What¬
ever is the diredtion of the drip’s motion, the abfolute
impulfe on that part of the bow immediately contigu¬
ous to B is perpendicular to that very part of the fur-
face. The more acute, therefore, that the angle of the
bow is, the more will the impulfe on that part be per¬
pendicular to the keel, and the greater will be its ener¬
gy to turn the head to windward.
Propriety of Thus we are enabled to underdand or to fee the pro-
the difpofi- priety of the difpodtion of the fails of a drip. We fee
tion of the ller crowded with fails forward, and even many fails ex-
fai sofa tended far before her bow, fuch as the fpritfail, the
bowfprit-topfail, the fore-topmaft ftayfail, the jib, and
flying jib. The fails abaft are comparatively fmaller.
The fails on the mizenmad: are much fmaller than thole
on the foremaft. All the dayfails hoifted on the main-
mad may be conddered as headfails, becaufe their cen¬
tres of effort are condderably before the centre of gra¬
vity of the drip : and notwithdanding this difpodtion,
it generally requires a fmall adtion of the rudder to
counteradl the windward tendency of the lee-bow. This
is conddered as a good quality when moderate; be¬
caufe it enables the feaman to throw the fails aback, and
ftop the drip’s way in a moment, if die be in danger
44
Griping.
N S H I P.
from any thing a dread j and the drip which dqes not
carry a little of a weather helm, is always a dull Jailer.
In order to judge fomewhat more accurately of the Acdion of
adlion of the water and fails, fuppofe the drip AB the water
(fig. 9.) to have its fails on the mizenmad; D, the main- ailfl t^c
marl B, and forenrail F, braced up or trimmed alike,
and that the three lines D i, E e, F f perpendicular to Fig. j.
the fails, are in the proportion of the impulfes on the
fails. The drip is driven a-head and to leeward, and
moves in the path aCb. This path is fo inclined to
the line of the keel that the medium direclion of the
reddance of the water is parallel to the diredlion of the
impulfe. A line Cl may be drawn parallel to the lines
D i, E e, Ff and equal to their fum : and it may be
drawn from fuch a point C, that the adlions on all the
parts of the hull between C and B may balance the
momenta of all lire actions on the hull between C and A. ^
This point may judly be called the centre of effort, or Centre of
the centre of rejijhince. We cannot determine this point effort
for want of a proper theory of the reddance of fluids.
Nay, although experiments like thole of the Paridan
academy flrouid give us the mod perfect knowledge of
the intenfity of the oblique impulfes on a fquare foot,
we flrouid hardly be benefited by them : for the aftion of
the water on a fquare foot of the hull at />, for indance,
is fo modified by the intervention of the dream of wa¬
ter which has druck the hull about B, and glided along
the bow Bo/>, that the preiTure on /> is totally different
from what it would have been were it a fquare foot or
furface detached from the reft, and prefented in the
fame podtion to the water moving in the direction b C.
For it is found, that the reddances given to planes join¬
ed fo as to form a wedge, or to curved furfaces, are
widely different from the accumulated refidances, calcu¬
lated for their feparate parts, agreeably to the experi¬
ments of the academy on dngle iurfaces. Wc therefore
do not attempt to ascertain the point C by theory ; but
it may be accurately determined by the experiments
which we have fo ftrongly recommended ; and we offer
this as an additional inducement for profecuting them. ^3
Draw through C a line perpendicular to Cl, that is, to be de¬
parallel to the fails ; and let the lines of impulfe of the teimined
three fails cut it in the points z, k, and m. This line cxPen"
im may be conudered as a lever, moveable round C,1"
and a£ted on at the points z, k, and m, by three forces.
The rotatory momentum of the fails on the mizenmaft
is Dz’ X i C 5 that of the fails on the mainmaft is
E z* X ^ C j and the momentum of the fails on the fore¬
maft is Yf X m C. The two firft tend to prefs forward
the arm C z, and then to turn the (hip’s head towards 49
the wind. The aflion of the fails on the foremaft tends
to pull the arm C m forward, and produce a contrary je^^ ^e“
rotation. If the drip under thefe three fails keeps Ilea- the pofiuon
dily in her couife, without the aid of the rudder, we ot the fails,
muft have DzxzC-J-Ez’X^C — Fy'x tnC. This
is very poffible, and is often feen in a Jhip under her
mizen-topfail, main-topfail, and fore-topfail, all parallel
to one another, and their furfaces duly proportioned by
reefing. If more fails are Jet, we muft always have a
fimilar equilibrium. A certain number of them will
have their efforts directed from the larboard arm of the
lever im lying to leeward of Cl, and a certain number
will have their efforts directed from the (larboard arm
lying to windward of Cl. The fum of the produ£ts of
each of the firil fet, by their diilances from C, muft be
equal
88 S E A M A
equal to the Turn of the fimilar products of the other
fet. As this equilibrium is all that is neceffary for pre-
ferving the {hip’s pofition, and the ceffation of it is im¬
mediately followed by a converfion; and as thefe ftates
of the {hip may be had by means of the three fquare
fails only, when their furfaces are properly proportion¬
ed—it is plain that every movement may be executed and
explained by their means. This will greatly Amplify our
future difcuffions. We {hall therefore fuppofe in future
that there are only the three topfails fet, and that their
{iirfaces are fo adjufted by reefing, that their aftions
exaftly balance each other round that point C of the
middle line AB, where the actions of the water on the
different parts of her bottom in like manner balance
each other. This point C may be differently fituated
in the {hip according to the leeway fire makes, depend¬
ing on the trim of the fails j and therefore although a
certain proportion of the three furfaces may balance each
other in one {fate of leeway, they may happen not to do fo
in another ftate. But the equilibrium is evidently attaina-
50 ble in every cafe, and we therefore {hall alwTays fuppofe it.
Confe- It muft now be obferved, that when this equilibrium
deftrov-0 c^e^:royeci> as> f°r example, by turning the edge of the
ing it. mizen-topfail to the wind, which the feamen call Jhiver-
ing the mizen-topfail, and which may be confidered as
equivalent to the removing the mizen-topfail entirely, it
does not follow that the {hip will round the point C,
this point remaining fixed. The Ihip muft be confi¬
dered as a free body, {fill a£fed on by a number of
forces, which no longer balance each other ; and {he
muft therefore begin to turn round a fpontaneous axis
of converfion, wThich muft be determined in the tvay fet
forth in the article Rotation. It is of importance to
point out in general where this axis is fituated. There¬
fore let G (fig. 10.) be the centre of gravity of the
Fig- 10. {hip. Draw the line qQ v parallel to the yards, cut¬
ting D in E <? in r, Cl in /, and Fyin d. While
the three fails are fet, the line q v may be confidered as
a lever afted on by four forces, vi’Z. T)d, impelling the
lever forward perpendicularly in the point q ; E e, im¬
pelling it forward in the point r ; Yf, impelling it for¬
ward in the point v ; and Cl, impelling it backward in
the point t. Thefe forces balance each other both in
refpeft of progreflive motion and of rotatory energy : for
Cl was taken equal to the fum of D E e, and F f; fo
that no accele»ation or retardation of the fiiip’s progrefs
in her courfe is fuppofed.
But by taking away the mizen-topfail, both the equi¬
libriums are deftroyed. A part D of the accelerating
force is taken away j and yet the ftiip, by her inertia or
inherent force, tends, for a moment, to proceed in the
direftion C p with her former velocity ; and by this ten¬
dency exerts for a moment the fame prefifure Cl on the
water, and fuftains the fame refiftance IC. She muft
therefore be retarded in her motion by the excefs of the
refiftance IC over the remaining impelling forces E e
and F that is, by a force equal and oppofite to D d.
She will therefore be retarded in the fame manner as if
the mizen-topfail were ftill fet, and a force equal and
oppofite to its a&ion w'ere applied to G the centre of
gravity, and {he would foon acquire a fmaller velocity,
which would again bring all things into equilibrium ;
and ftie would ftand on in the fame courfe, without
changing either her leeway or the pofition of her head.
But the equilibrium of the lever is alfo deftroyed.
I
N S H I P.
It is now a£ted on by three forces only, E e and
Fyi impelling it forward in the points r and and IC
impelling it backward in the point t. Make rv\r o=s
Ye-\-Yf\Yf, and make op parallel to Cl and equal
to Ee—Ff. Then we know, from the common prin¬
ciples of mechanics, that the force op a£Hng at 0 will
have the fame momentum or energy to turn the lever
round any point whatever as the two forces E e and Ff
applied at r and v ; and now the lever is afted on by
two forces, vi%. IC, urging it backwards in the point
/, and op urging it forwards in the point 0. It muft
therefore turn round like a floating log, which gets two
blows in oppofite direftions. If we now make IC—0p
: 0 p—t 0 : t x, or IC—0 p :\C =110 \ 0 x, and apply to
the point x a force equal to IC—op in the dire&ion IC j
we know by the common principles of mechanics, that
this force IC-—o/> will produce the fame rotation round
any point as the two forces IC and op applied in their
proper dire&ions at t and 0. Let us examine the fitua-
tion of the point .v.
The force IC—0p is evidently =r D </, and o/i is
=:Ee-bFyi Therefore 01 \ t x-zzY) d \ 0 p. But be-
caufe, when all the fails were filled, there was an equi¬
librium round C, and therefore round t, and becaufe the
force op adling at 0 is equivalent to E e and Ff acting
at r and t/, we muft ftill have the equilibrium ; and
therefore we have the momentum D</x q t — op Xo t.
Therefore 0 t: t q zz Y) d: op, and t q — t x. There¬
fore the point x is the fame with the point q. ^
Therefore, when we ftflver the mizen-topfail, the ro- By fiiiver-
tation of the ftiip is the fame as if the {hip were at reft,ing the
and a force equal and oppofite to the action of the mi- ™*en*top*
zen-topfail were applied at q or at D, or at any point in al *
the line Dy.
This might have been {hown in another and Ihorter
way. Suppofe all fails filled, the ftiip is in equilibrio.
This will be difturbed by applying to D a force oppo¬
fite to Yd; and if the force be alfo equal to D d, it is
evident that thefe two forces deftroy each other, and
that this application of the force //D is equivalent to
the taking away of the mizen-topfail. But we chofe to
give the whole mechanical inveftigation j becaufe it
gave us an opportunity of pointing out to the reader, in
a cafe of very eafy comprehenfion, the precife manner
in which the {hip is afted on by the different fails and
by the water, and what {hare each of them has in the
motion ultimately produced. We ftiall not repeat this
manner of procedure in other cafes, becaufe a little re¬
flexion on the part of the reader will now enable him
to trace the modus operandi through all its fteps.
We now fee that, in refpeX both of progreftive mo¬
tion and of converfion, the flrip is affeXed by ftiivering
the fail Df in the fame manner as if a force equal and
oppofite to D d were applied at D, or at any point in
the line D d. We muft now have recouvfe to the prin¬
ciples eftabliftied under the article Rotation.
Let p reprefent a particle of matter, r its radius vec¬
tor, or its diftance p G from an axis palling through
the centre of gravity G, and let M reprefent the whole
quantity of matter of the ftiip. Then its momentum
of inertia is =/> •r (fee Rotation, N° 18.) The
ftiip, impelled in the point D by a force in the direc¬
tion </D, will begin to turn round a fpontaneous verti¬
cal axis, palling through a point S of the line q G,
which
89
SEAMANSHIP.
which is drawn through the centre of gravity G, per¬
pendicular to the diredlion // D of the external force,
and the diftance GS of this axis from the centre of gra-
/>• r*
vity is    (fee Rotation, N° 96.), and it is
M-Gy
taken on the oppofite fide of G from y, that is, S and q
are on oppofite fides of G.
Let us exprefs the external force by the fymbol F.
It is equivalent to a certain number of pounds, being
the preiTure of the wind moving with the velocity V
and inclination a on the furface of the fail D ; and may
therefore be computed either by the theoretical or ex¬
perimental law of oblique impulfes. Having obtained
this, we can afeertain the angular velocity of the rota¬
tion and the abfolute velocity of any given point of the
{hip by means of the theorems eftabliflied in the article
Rotation.
Aflion of But before wre proceed to this invefiigation, we (hall
the rudder, confider the action of the rudder, which operates pre-
Fig. ii. cifely in the fame manner. Let the (hip AB (fig. 11.)
have her rudder in the pofition AD, the helm being
hard a-ftarboard, while the (hip failing on the {lar¬
board tack, and making leexvay, keeps on the courfe
ab. The lee furface of the rudder meets the water
obliquely. The very foot of the rudder meets it in the
diredtion DE parallel to a b. The parts farther up
meet it with various obliquities, and with various velo¬
cities, as it glides round the bottom of the {hip and
falls into the wake. It is abfolutely impoffible to cal¬
culate the accumulated impulfe. We fhall not be far
mifiaken in the defledlion of each contiguous filament,
as it quits the bottom and glides along the rudder ;
but we neither know the velocity of thefe filaments, nor
the deflecfion and velocity of the filaments gliding
without them. We therefore imagine that all compu¬
tations on this fubjedl are in vain. But it is enough
for cur purpofe that wre know the direcllon of the ab¬
folute preffure which they exert on its furface. It is
in the diredlion D r/, perpendicular to that furface. We
alfo may be confident that this preffure is very confider-
able, in proportion to the adtion of the water on the
flip’s bows, or of the wind on the fails; and we may
fuppofe it to be nearly in the proportion of the fquaie
of the velocity of the ftiip in her courfe ; but we cannot
affirm it to be accurately in that proportion, for reafons
that will readily occur to one who confiders the way in
which the water falls in behind the {hip.
Greateft in It is obferved, however, that a fine failer always
a fine failer. fleers well, and that all movements by means of the
rudder are performed with great rapidity when the
velocity of the {hip is great. We {hall fee by and by,
that the fpeed with which the {hip performs the angu¬
lar movements is in the proportion of her progreflive
velocity : For we {hall fee that the fquares of the times
of performing the evolution are as the impulfes inverfe-
ly, which are as the fquares of the velocities. There is
perhaps no force which adls on a {hip that can be
more accurately determined by experiment than this.
Let the flip ride in a flream or tideway whofe velocity
is accurately meafured ; and let her ride from two moor-
ings, fo that her bow may be a fixed point. Let a
fmall tow-line be laid out from her flera or quarter at
right angles to the keel, and connedled with fome ap¬
paratus fitted up on {here or on board another (hip, by
Vol. XIX. Part I.
which the ftrain on it may be accurately mdafured ; a
perfon converfant with mechanics will fee many ways 54
in which this can be done. Perhaps the following may How to de.
be as good as any : Let the end of the tow-line be fixedterrnine ,r’
to fome point as high out of the water as the point of
the fliip from which it is given out, and let this be very
high. Let a block with a hook be on the rope, and
a confiderable weight hung on this hook. Things be¬
ing thus prepared, put down the helm to a certain angle,
fo as to caufe the {hip to fiieer off from the point to
which the far end of the tow-line is attached. This will
ftretch the rope, and raife the weight out of the water.
Notv heave upon the rope, to bring the fhip back again
to her former pofition, with her keel in the direction or
the ftream. When this pofition is attained, note care¬
fully the form of the rope, that is, the angle which its
two parts make with the horizon. Call this angle a.
Every perfon acquainted with thefe fubjetffs knows that
the horizontal ftrain is equal to half the weight multi¬
plied by the cotangent of a, or that 2 is to the co¬
tangent of a as the weight to the horizontal ftrain.
Now it is this ftrain which balances and therefore mea-
fures the aftion of the rudder, or De in fig. 11. There¬
fore, to have the ahfolute impulfe Dff, we muft increafe
D e in the proportion of radius to the fecant of the
angle b which the rudder makes with the keel. In a
great ftiip failing fix miles in an hour, the impulfe on
the rudder inclined 30° to the keel is not lefs than
3000 pounds. The furface of the rudder of fuch a
ftiip contains near 80 fquare feet. It is not, however,
very neceffary to know this abfolute impulfe D d, be-
caufe it is its part D c alone which meafures the energy
of the rudder in producing a converfion. Such expe¬
riments, made with various pofitions of the rudder, will
give its energies correfponding to thefe pofilions, and
will fettle that long difputed point, which is the belt
pofition for turning a (hip. On the hypothefis that
the impulfions of fluids are ,in the duplicate ratio of the
fines of incidence, there can be no doubt that it ftiould
make an angle of 540 44' with the keel. But the form
of a large ihip will not admit of this, becaufe a tiller of
a length fufiicient for managing the rudder in failing
with great velocity has not room to deviate above 30°
from the direflion of the keel; and in this pofition of
the rudder the mean obliquity of the filaments of wa¬
ter to its furface cannot exceed 40® or 450. A greater
angle would not be of much fervice, for it is never
for want of a proper obliquity that the rudder fails of
producing a converfion.
A fltip miffes ftays in rough weather for want of a ,
fufficient progreflive velocity, and became her bows are miffes fta's
beat off by the waves: and there is feldom any diffi-&c.
culty in wearing the fhip, if ftie has any progreflive
motion. It is, however, always defirable to give the
rudder as much influence as poflible. Its furface fhould
be enlarged (efpecially below) as much as can be done
confidently with its ftrength and with the pov/er of the
fteerfmen to manage it; and it ftiould be put in the
moft favourable fituation for the water to get at it with
great velocity; and it fhould be placed as far from the
axis of the fhip’s motion as poflible. Thefe points are
obtained by making the ftern-poft very upright, as has
always been done in the French dockyards. The Bri-
tifti fhips have a much greater rake; but our builders are
gradually adopting the French form?, experience ha-
M ving
99
c(5
The aclion
nf ibe rud¬
der fimilar
10 that of
the fails,
and very
great.
Employed
as an exam¬
ple of the
motions of
Converfion.
S E A M A N S II I P.
Ving lauglit us tLat tl:eir (hips, when in our pofleffion,
are much more obedient to the helm than our own.—
In order to afcertain the motion produced by the ac¬
tion of the rudder, draw from the centre of gravity a
line Gy perpendicular to D// (D<^ being drawn
through the centre of effort of the rudder). Then, as in
the confideration of the aftion of the fails, we may con¬
ceive the line y G as a lever connefted wdth the {hip, and
impelled by a force Dr/ adting perpendicularly at y. The
confequence of this will be, an incipient converfion of
the fhip about a vertical axis pafTmg through fome
point S in the line y G, lying on the other fide of G
from y; and we have, as in the former cafe, GS =
J p - r\
M • G y *
Thus the aftion and effedfs of the fails and of the
rudder are perfectly fimilar, and are to be confidered in
the fame manner. We fee that the adtion of the rud¬
der, though of a fmall furface in comparifon of the fails,
muft be very great : For the impulfe of water is many
hundred times greater than that of the wind j and the
arm y G of the lever, by wThich it adts, is incomparably
greater than that by which any of the impulfions on the
fails produces its effed! ; accordingly the fhip yields
much more rapidly to its adtion than fhe does to the la¬
teral impulfe of a fail.
Ohferve here, that if G were a fixed or fupported
axis, it would be the fame thing whether the abfolute
force D d of the rudder adls in the diredfion D d, or
its tranfverfe part D e adts in the diredtion D e, both
would produce the fame rotation ; but it is not fo in a
free body. The force D d both tends to retard the
ihip’s motion and to produce a rotation : It retards it
as much as if the fame force D d had been immediately
applied to the centre. And thus the real motion of the
fhip is compounded of a motion of the centre in a di¬
redtion parallel to D </, and of a motion round the
centre. Thefe two conflitute the motion round S.
As the effedts of the adtion of the rudder are both
more remarkable and fomewhat more fimple than thofe
of the fails, we {hall employ them as an example of the
mechanifm of the motions of converfion in general j and
as we muft content ourfelves in a rvork like this with
what is very general, we fhall fimplify the inveftigation
by attending only to the motion of converfion. We
can get an accurate notion of the whole motion, if want¬
ed for any purpofe, by combining the progreffive or
retrograde motion parallel to D</ with the motion of
rotation which we are about to determine.
In this cafe, then, we obferve, in the firft place, that the
D /z • y G
angular velocity (fee Rotation, N° 22.) is —  .
y>r= ’
and, as was fhowm in that article, this velocity of rota¬
tion increases in the proportion of the time of the forces
unifoim adlion, and the rotation wrould be uniformly ac¬
celerated if the forces did really adt uniformly. This,
however, cannot be the cafe, becaufe, by the fhip’s
change of pofition and change of progieflive velocity,
the diredlion and intenfity of the impelling force is con¬
tinually changing. But if two (hips are performing
fimilar evolutions, it is obvious that the changes of force
sy:e Gmilar in fimilar parts of the evolution. Therefore
the confideration of the momentary evolution is fufficient
for enabling us to compare the motions of ihips adfuated
by fimilar forces, which is all rve have in view at prefent.
The velocity v, generated in any time i by the con¬
tinuance of an invariable momentary acceleration (which
is all that we mean by faying that it is produced by the
adlion of a conftant accelerating force), is as the acce¬
leration and the time jointly. Nowr what we call the
angular velocity is nothing but this momentary accele¬
ration. Therefore the velocity v generated in the time
F-yG
t is = “ t.
P
y . . cs
The expreffion of the angular velocity is alfo the ex-Angular
prefuon of the velocity v of a point fituated at the di-velocity,
fiance 1 from the axis G.
Let ss be the fpace or arch of revolution deferibed in
the time t by this point, whofe diflance from G is
Then % t =  t /, and taking the
fluent £ rr
p r-
G
/*. This arch meafures the whole
. angle of rotation accomplifhed in the time t. Thefe
are therefore as the fquares of the times from the begin¬
ning of the rotation.
Thofe evolutions are equal which are meafured by
equal arches. Thus two motions of 45 degrees each
are equal. Therefore becaufe » is the fame in both,
F-yG . J .
the quantity ~~g /2 is a conftant quantity, and P
/>'
reciprocally proportional to
F-yG
ft"' ’
or is proportional
f,
to ~
p 1"
F-
and t is proportional to
Jj'p r‘
That
?G’ x-,—-- . ^F-yG
is to fay, the times of the fimilar evolutions of two
{hips are as the fquare root of the momentum of iner¬
tia diredfly, and as the fquare root of the momentum of
the rudder or fail inverfely. This wdll enable us to
make the comparifon eafily. Let us fuppofe the fhips
perfedlly fimilar in form and rigging, and to differ only
in length L and /; * R2 is 10ft r2 as Ls to /5.
For the fimilar particles P and p contain quantities of
matter which are as the cubes of their lineal dimenfions,
that is, as L* to /3. And becaufe the particles are fi-
milarly fituated, R2 is to r2 as L2 to/2. Therefore
P • R2 : p - r‘—Ls : P. Now F is to / as L2 to l1.
For the furfaces of the fimilar rudders or fails are as
the fquares of their lineal dimenfions, that is, as L2 to
A And, lafUy, G y is to £ y as L to /, and therefore
F-Gy:/-^y — L3 :/3. Therefore we have T2 :
/P-R* //»-r2_Ls IJ_
F ’ G y, f'gq L3 /3
/:=L:/-
Therefore the times of performing fimilar evolutions Times of fi-
with fimilar fhips are proportional to the lengths of the m lar evo-
fhips when both are failing equally faft j and fince thef^,°^vut
evolutions are fimilar, and the forces vary fimilarly in ^p;.
their
P
L2 : /*, and T :
59
SEAM A
their different parts, what is here demonilrated of the
i'mallelt incipient evolutions is true of the whole. They
therefore not only defcribe equal angles of revolution,
but alto timilar curves.,
A fmall (hip, therefore, works in lefs time and in
let’s room than a great Ihip, and this in the proportion
of its length. This is a great advantage in all cafes,
particulatly in wearing, in order to fail on the other
tack cloie-hauled. In this cafe the will always be to
windward and a-head of the large (hip, when both are
got on the other tack. It would appear at fidl fight
that the large drip will have the advantage in tacking.
Indeed the large Ihip is farther to windward when again
trimmed on the other tack than the fmall fhip when the
is jull trimmed on the other tack. But this happened
before the large ilnp had completed her evolution, and
the hnall thip, in the mean time, has been going forward
on the other tack, and going to windward. She will
therefore be before the large (hip’s beam, and perhaps
as far to windward.
We have feen that the velocity of rotation is propor¬
tional, aeteris paribus, to F X y- F means the ab-
folute impulle on the rudder or fail, and is always per¬
pendicular to iis furface. This abfolute impulfe on a
fail depends on the obliquity of the wind to its furface.
The ufual theory fays, that it is as the fquare of the
fine of incidence : but we find this not true. We mull
content ourfelves with exprefling it by (ome as yet un-
knmvn function <p of the angle of incidence a, and call it
<P a ; and if S be the furface of the fail, and V the velo¬
city of the wind, the abfolute impulfe is « V* S X tf*
This a£ts (in the cafe of the mizen-topfail, fig. 10.)
by the lever q G, which is equal to DG X c°h TG q,
and DG q is equal to the angle of the yard and keel ;
which angle we formerly called b. Therefore its energy
in producing a rotation is « V1 S X P ^ X DG xcof.
Leaving out the conilant quantities n, V1, S, and DG,
its energy is proportional to cpay^coLb. In order,
therefore, that any fail may have the greateft power
to produce a rotation round G, itxmuft be fo trimmed
that ^flXcof. & may be a maximum. Thus, if we
would trim the fails on the foremaft, fo as to pay the
Ihip off from the wind right a-head with the greateft
effect, and if we take the experiments of the French
academicians as proper meafures of the oblique impulfes
of the wind on the fail, we will brace up the yard to an
angle of 48 degrees with the keel. The impulfe corre-
fponding to 48 is 615, and the cofine of 48° is 669.
Thefe give a produft of 411435. If we brace the fail
to 54.44, the angle aftigned by the theory, the effective
impulfe is 405274. If we make the angle 45°, the im¬
pulfe is 408774. It appears then that 48° is preferable
to either of the others. But the difference is inconfi-
derable, as in all cafes of maximum a fmall deviation
from the beft pofition is not very detrimental. But the
difference between the theory and this experimental
meafure will be very great when the impulfes of the
wind are of neceffity very oblique. Thus, in tacking
fhip, as foon as the headfails are taken aback, they
ferve to aid the evolution, as is evident : But if we were
now to adopt the maxim inculcated by the theory, we
Ihou'd immediately round in the weather-braces, fo as
to increafe the impulfe on the fail, becaufe it is then
very fmall j and although we by this means make yard
more fquare, and therefore dimini(h the rotatory mo-
N S H I P.
mentum of this impulfe, yet the impulfe is more Increafed
(by the theory) than its vertical lever is diminilhed.—
Let us examine this a little more particularly, becaule
it is reckoned one of the niceft paints of feamanlhip to
aid the (hip’s coming round by means of the headfails ;
and experienced feamen differ in their praftice in this
manoeuvre. Suppofe the yard braced up to 40°, which
is as much as can be ufually done, and that the fail
Ihivers (the bowlines are ufually let go when the helm is
put down), the fail immediately takes aback, and in
a moment wTe may fuppofe an incidence 01 6 degrees.
The impulfe correfponding to (his is 400 (by experi¬
ment), and tbe coline of 40° is 766. This gives 306400
for the effective impulfe. To proceed according to the
theory, we Ihould brace the yard to 70°, which would
give the wind (now 340 on the weather-bow) an inci¬
dence of nearly 36°, and the fail an inclination of 20°
to the intended motion, which is perpendicular to the
keel. For the tangent of 20° is about of the tangent
of 36°. Let us now fee what effeftive impulfe the ex¬
perimental law of oblique impulfions will give for this
adjuftment of the fails. The experimental impulfe for
36° is 480 ; the cofine of 70° is 342 ; the produft is
164160, not much exceeding the half of the former.
Nay, the impulle for 36°, calculated by the theory,
would have been only 346, and (he effective impulfe
only 118332. And it mult be farther obferved, that this
theoretical adjuftment would tend greatly to check the
evolution, and in moft cafes would entirely mar it, by
checking the (hip’s motion a-head, and confequently the
aftion of the rudder, which is the moft powerful agent
in the evolution , for here would be a great impulfe di¬
rected almoft aftern.
We were juftifiable, therefore, in faying, in the be¬
ginning of this article, that a feaman would frequently
find himfelf baffled if he were to work a Ihip according
to the rules deduced from M. Bouguer’s work ; and we
fee by this inftance of what importance it is to have the
oblique impulfions of fluids afeertained experimentally.
The praCtice of the moft experienced feaman is direCtly
the oppofite to this theoretical maxim, and its fuccefs
greatly confirms the ufefulnefs of thefe experiments of
the academicians fo often praifed by us.
We return again to tbe general confideration of the
. ¥ • qG
rotatory motion. We found the velocity v~—— .
J P
It is therefore proportional, cateris paribus, to q G.
We have feen in what manner q G depends on the pofi¬
tion and fituation of the fail or rudder when the point
G is fixed. But it alfo depends on the pofition of G.
With refpeft to the aCtion of the rudder, it is evident
that it is fo much the more powerful as it is more re¬
mote from G. The diilance from G may be increafed
either by moving the rudder farther aft cr G farther
forward. And as it is of the utmoft importance that a
Ihip anfwer her helm with the greateft promptitude,
thofe circumftances have been attended to which diftin-
guifhed fine fleering fhips from fuch as had not this
quality ; and it is in a great meafure to be afenbed to
this, that, in the gradual improvement of naval architec¬
ture, the centre of gravity has been placed far forward.
Perhaps the notion of a centre of gravity did not come
into the thoughts of the rude builders in early times; but
they obferved that thofe boats and (hips fleered beft which
M 2 had
92
S E A M A
had their extreme breadth before the middle point, and
confequently the bows not fo acute as the Hern. This is
fo contrary to what one would expeft, that it attrafted
attention more forcibly 5 and, being fomewhat myfleti-
ous, it might prompt to attempts of improvement, by
exceeding in this fingular maxim. We believe that it
has been carried as far as is compatible with other ei-
61 fential requiiites in a drip.
tancTtcTc' ^ e believe that this is the chief circumftance in
termine the called the trim of a drip ; and it were greatly
heft place to be wilhed that the bell place for the centre of gravi-
lor a fhip’s ty could be accurately afcertained. A pradlice pre-
t entre ct vails, which is the oppolite of what we are now ad-
feiau -• vancing. It is ufual to load a Ihip fo that her keel is
not horizontal, but lower abaft. This is found to im¬
prove her lleerage. The reafon of this is obvious. It
increafes the afting furface of the rudder, and allows
the water to come at it with much greater freedom and
regularity ; and it generally diminilhes the griping of
the fliip forward, by removing a part of the bows out
of the water. It has not always this effedf 5 for the
form of the harping aloft is frequently fuch, that the
tendency to gripe is diminifhed by immerling more of
the bow in the water.
But waving thefe circumlfances, and attending only
x to the rotatory energy of the rudder, we fee that it is
ol advantage to carry the centre of gravity fonvard.
The fame advantage is gained to the adlion of the after
/fails. But, on the other hand, the aftion of the head-
lails is diminifhed by it ; and we may call every fail
a headfail whofe centre of gravity is before the centre of
gravity of the drip ; that is, all the fails hoifted on the
bowfprit and foremall, and the flay fails hoifted on the
mainmaft ; for the centre of gravity is feldom far before
the mainmaft.
Suppofe that when the rudder is put into the poft-
tion AD (fig. 11.), the centre of gravity could be
thifted to g, fo as to increafe q G, and that this is done
without increaftng the fum of the produfls p r1. It is
obvious that the velocity of converfton will be increafed
in the proportion of q G to q g. This is very poflible,
by bringing to that fide of the ftiip parts of her loading
which were fituated at a diftance from G on the other
fide. Nay, we can make this change in fuch a manner
that j'pri lhall even be lefs than it v’as before, by
taking care that every thing which we ftuft fhall be
nearer to ^ than it wras formerly to G. Suppofe it all
placed in one fpot m, and that m is the quantity of mat¬
ter fo fhifted, while M is the quantity of matter in the
whole (hip. It is only neceflary that m'gG* lhall be
lefs than the fum of the produdls p r1 correfponding to
the matter which has been Ihifted. Now, although the
matter which is eafiiy moveable is generally very fmall
in comparifon to the whole matter of the fhip, and there¬
fore can make but a fmall change in the place of the
centre of gravity, it may frequently be brought from
places fo remote that it may occafion a very fenfible di¬
minution of the quantity f p which expreffes the
whole momentum of inertia.
A practice This explains a practice of the feamen in fmall wher-
ot teamen ties or Ikiffs, who in putting about are accuftomed to
abotAex8 ^aCe themfelves to leeward of the mail. They even
plained. ^ lhey can aid the quick motions of thefe light
N S H I P.
boats by the way in which they reft on their two feet,
fometimes leaning all on one foot, and fcmetimes on the
other. And we have often feen this evolution very fen-
fibly accelerated in a (hip of war, by the crew running
fuddenly, as the helm is put down, to the lee-bow. And
we have heard it afierted by very expert feamen, that
after all attempts to wear ftiip (after lying-to in a ftorm)
have failed, they have fucceeded by the crew collecting
themfelves near the weather fore-ihrouds the moment
the helm was put down. It muft be agreeable to the
reflecting feaman to fee this practice fupported by un¬
doubted mechanical principles.
It will appear paradoxical to fay that the evolution The evolu-
may be accelerated even by an addition of matter to thetion accete-
fhip j and though it is only a piece of curiofity, ourrated A
readers may with to be made fenfible of it. Let m be adclltl0na‘
the addition, placed in feme point in lying beyond Q.mattel'
from q. Let S be the fpontaneous centre of converfion
before the addition. Let v be the velocity of rotation
round g, that is, the velocity of a point whofe diftance
Irom ^ is 1, and let g be the radius vector, or diftance of
a particle from We have (Rotation, N° 22.) v~
fpC+m'ms
that fp£ ~ f p
But we know (Rotation, N° 23.)
4- M • G g1. Therefore
 . Let us determine
Z1 —
Gpr
J P r2-f-M • G g*1 -f-m • in g*
and mg and qg.
Let mG be called z. Then, by the nature of the
centre of gravity, M-fwz : M—G m : g m—% : g m, and
f?i IY12
ss, and m ' g n? — a2. In like
M rrP
g m =
M
M4-W
manner, M • G ^ =
M -j- m"
Now in lYP-j-M np
M+m
—M m X hi -f- in. Therefore M • G -f- m • g tip
_ M m X (ffl -j-m) . M m
M ft- m
in
M-f-
M+tn
■, then M • Gi-j-m ■ g m3=zM n %t.
Let n be =:
Alfo G
—ti %.
771
being -—z. Let 9 G be called c : then
0 M-fn 7
qgzzc-j-nz. Alfo let SG be called
We have now for the exprefiion of the velocity
F c-f-n z
or i’ =r — x • L . But
F (c-j-n z)
y p r1 -j- M 11 z1
fp
-—c e.
Therefore, finally, v~z
(Rotation, N° 30)" M
^ Had there been no addition of matter
Y_
M ^ ce-\-n z
F c
made, we fliould have had X —• It remains to
M c e
c
fhow, that z may be fo taken that — may be lefs than
c-\-n z
c e-if-tiz1
New, if c be to 3 as c e to z%, that h, if ss
be
93
64
The rota¬
tion per¬
formed
round a
fpontane-
ouj axis.
.
Different
operations
of ihe wa¬
ter on the
fhip and
wind on
the fails ba
lance each
other.
SEAM A
be taken equal to e, the two fractions will be equal.
But if 2; be lefs than e, that is, if the additional matter
is placed anywhere between S and G, the complex frac¬
tion will be greater than the fradlion —, and the velo¬
city of rotation wall be increafed. There is a particular
diftance which will make it the greateft poffible, name¬
ly, when 53 is made =— -±-nc e-—c), as will
eafily be found by treating the fradlicn
c-\-n %
ith
c e-\-7i
a, confidered as the variable quantity, for a maximum.
In what we have been faying on this fubjedf, we have
confidered the rotation only in as much as it is per¬
formed round the centre of gravity, although in every
moment it is really performed round a fpontaneous axis
lying beyond that centre. This was done becaufe it af¬
forded an eafy inveftigation, and any angular motion
round the centre of gravity is equal to the angular
motion round any other point. Therefore the extent
and the time of the evolution are accurately defined—
From obferving that the energy of the force F is pro¬
portional to q G, an inattentive reader will be apt to
conceive the centre of gravity as the centre of motion,
and the rotation as taking place, becaufe the momenta of
the fails and rudder, on the oppofite fides of the centre
of gravity, do not balance each other. But we muff
always keep in mind that this is not the caufe of the ro¬
tation. The caufe is the want of equilibrium round
the point C (fig. 10.), where the a£lions of the wrater
balance each other. During the evolution, which con-
fifts of a rotation combined wfith a progreffive motion,
this point C is continually Ihifting, and the unbalanced
momenta which continue the rotation ahvays refpeil the
momentary fituation of the point C. It is neverthelefs
always true that the energy of a force F is proportional
(cceteris paribus^) to q G, and the rotation is always
made in the fame direftion as if the point G were really
the centre of converfion. Therefore the malnfail a£ls
always (when oblique) by pufhing the ftern away from
the wind, although it fliould fome’times aft on a point
of the vertical lever through C, which is a-head ef C.
Thefe obfervaiions on the effefls of the fails and
rudder in producing a converfion, are fufficient for ena¬
bling us to explain any cafe of their action which may
occur. We have not confidered the effefts which they
tend to produce by inclining the fiiip round a horizon¬
tal axis, viz, the motions of rolling and pitching. See
Kolling and Pitching. To treat this fubjeft pro¬
perly would lead us into the whole doftrine of the equi¬
librium of floating bodies, and it wmuld rather lead to
maxims of conitruftion than to maxims of manoeuvre.
M. Bouguer’s Traite du Navire and Euler’s Scientia
Navalis are excellent performances on this fubjeft, and
we are not here obliged to have recourfe to any errone¬
ous theory.
It is eafy to fee that the lateral preffure both of the
wind on the fails and of the water on the rudder tends
to incline the fhip to one fide. The fails alfo tend to
prefs the fhip’s bows into the water, and, if (lie were
kept from advancing, would prefs them down confider-
ably. But by the fhip’s motion, and the prominent
'form of her bows, the refinance of the water to the
fore part of the Ihip produces a force which is directed
N S H I P,
upwards. The fails alfo have a fmall tendency to raife
the fiiip, for they conftitute a furface which in general
feparates from the plumb-line below. This is remark¬
ably the cafe in the ftayfails, particularly the jib and
fore-tcpmaft ftayfail. And this helps greatly to foften
the plunges of the fhip’s bows into the head feas. The
upward prefiure alfo of the water on her bows, which
we juft now mentioned, has a great eftedt in oppofing
the immerfion of the bows which the fails produce by
adling on the long levers furniihed by the mafts. M.
Bouguer gives the name of point velique to the point V
(fig. 12.) of the mail, where it is cut by the line CV, FlS-I?*
which marks the mean place and diredlion of the whole
impulle of the water on the bows. And he obferves, that
if the mean diredlion of all the adlions of the wind
on the fails be made to pafs alfo through this point,
there will be a perfedl equilibrium, and the Ihip will
have no tendency to plunge into the water or to rife
out of it ; for the whole adlion of the water on the
bows, in the diredlion CV, is equivalent to, and may
be refolved into the adlion CE, by which the progref¬
five motion is refilled, and the vertical adlion CD, by
which the Ihip is raifed above the water. The force
CE mull be oppofed by an equal force VD, exerted by
the wind on the fails, and the force CD is oppofed by
the weight of the fnip. If the mean effort of the fails
paffes above the point V, the Ihip’s bow will be prefted
into the water ) and if it pafs below V, her ftern will
be preffed down. But, by the union of thefe forces,
Hie will rife and fall with the fea, keeping always in a
parallel pofition. We apprehend that it is of very little
moment to attend to the fituation of this point. Ex¬
cept when the fhip is right afore the wind, it is a thou-
fand chances to one that the line CV of mean refiftance
does not pafs through any mail 5 and the faft is, that
the fhip cannot be in a Hate of uniform motion on any
other condition but the perfe61 union of the line of
mean action of the fails, and the line of mean action of
the refillance. But its place fhifts by every change of
leeway or of trim j and it is impoflible to keep thefe
lines in one conftant point of interfeflion for a moment,
on account of the inceflant changes of the furface of the
water on which ihe floats. M. Bouguer’s obl’ervations
on this point are, however, very ingenious and original. ^
We conclude this diflertation, by defcribing fome of Chief evo
the chief movements or evolutions. What we have '„ut.10I)S (5e*
faid hitherto is intended for the inflruflion of the artift,‘c;i'cc'’
by making him fenfible of the mechanical procedure.
The defcription is rather meant for the amufement of
the landfman, enabling him to underftand operations
that are familiar to the feaman. The latter will per¬
haps fmile at the aukward account given of his bufinefs
by one who cannot hand, reef, orEeer.
To tacli Ship.
The (hip muft firft be kept full, that Is, with a
very fenfible angle of incidence on the fails, and by
no means hugging the wind. For as this evolution is
chiefly performed by the rudder, it is neceffary to give
the fhip a good velocity. When the (hip is obferved
to lull up of herfelf, that moment is to be catched for
beginning the evolution, becaufe Hie will by her inhe¬
rent force continue this motion. The helm is then put
down. When the officer calls out Helm’s a lee, the
fore-ftieet, fore-top bowline, jib, and flag fail fheets for-,
ward
94
S E A M A
v;ard are let go. The jib is frequently hauled down.
Thus the obllacles to the drip’s head coming up to the
wind by the aftion of the rudder are removed. If the
xfcainfail is fet, it is not unufual to clue up the weather
fide, which may be confidered as a headfail, becaufe it
k before the centre of gravity. The xnizen muff
be hauled out, and even the fail braced to windward.
Its power in paying off the ftern from the wind con-
fpires with the aftion of the rudder. It is really an
aerial rudder. The fails are immediately taken aback.
In this date the effcft of the mizen-topfail would be
to abdruft the movement, by p re ding the dern the con¬
trary way to what it did before. It is therefore either
immediately braced about fharp on the other tack, or
lowered. Bracing it about evidently tends to pay
round the dern from the wind, and thus aflid in bring¬
ing the head up to the wind. But in this pofition it
checks the progredive motion of the fhip, on which the
evolution chiedy depends. For a rapid evolution, there¬
fore, it is as well to lower the mizen-topfail. Mean¬
time, the headfails are all aback, and the a£lion of the
wind on them tends greatly to pay the drip round. To
increare this eftedd, it is not unufual to haul the fore-top
bowline again. The fails on the mainmad are now ai¬
med becalmed ; and therefore -when the wind is right a-
head, or a little before, the mainfail is hauled round and
braced up diarp on the other tack with all expedition.
The dayfail fheets are now ddfted over to their places
for the other tack. The (hip is now entirely under the
power of the headfails and of the rudder, and their ac¬
tions confpire to promote the converdon. The fhip has
acquired an angular motion, and will preferve it, fo that
now the evolution is fecured, and fhe falls oft apace from
the wind on the other tack. The farther action of the
rudder is therefore unneceffary, and would even be pre¬
judicial, by caufing the diip to fall off too much from
the wind before the fails can be fhifted and trimmed for
failing on the other tack. It is therefore proper to right
the helm when the wind is right ahead, that is, to bring
the rudder into the dire£lion of the keel. The fhip con¬
tinues her converfion by her inherent force and the ac¬
tion of the headfails.
When the (hip has fallen off about four points from
the wind, the headfails are hauled round, and trimmed
fharp on the other tack with all expedition ; and al¬
though this operation was begun with the wind four
points on the bow, it will be fix before the fails are braced
tip, and therefore the headfails will immediately fill. The
after-fails have filled already, while the headfails were
ina&ive, and therefore immediately check the farther
falling off from the wind. All fails now draw, for the
ffayfail (heets have been fhifted over while they were be¬
calmed or (baking in the wind. The fhip now gathers
way, and will obey the fmalleft motion of the helm to
bring her clofe to the wind.
We have here fuppofed, that during all this opera¬
tion the (hip preferves her progreffrve motion. She
muff therefore have delcribed a curve line, advancing
Fig- I3* all the while to windward. Fig. 13. is a reprefenla-
tion of this evolution when it is performed in the com-
pleteft manner. The fhip fianding on the courfe E ay
with the wind blowing in the dirc6h'on WF, has her
helm put hard a-lee when fhe is in the pofition h. She
immediately deviates from her courfe, and defcribing a
.•/curve, comes to the pefilion B, with the wind blowing
3
N S H I P.
in the dire£licn WF of the yards, and the fquare-fails
now fliiver. The mizen topfail is here reprefented
braced fharp on the other tack, by which its tendency
to aid the angular motion (while it checks the progref-
five motion) is diitindlly feen. The main and fore¬
fails are now fhivering, and immediately after are taken
aback. The effect of this on the headfails is diftind-
ly feen to be favourable to the converfion, by pufhing
the point F in the diredion F i; but for the fame rea-
fon it continues to retard the progreffive motion.
When the fhip has attained to the pofition C, the main-
fail is hauled round and trimmed for the other tack.
I he impulfe in the diredion Fz iliil aids the converfion
and retards the progreffive motion. When the fhip has
attained a pofition between C and D, fuch that the
main and mizen topfail yards are in the diredion of the
wind, there is nothing to counterad the force of the
headfails to pay the fhip’s head off from the wind.
Nay, during the progrefs cf the fhip to this interme¬
diate polition, if any wind gets at the main or mizen
topfails, it ads on their anteror furfaces, and impels
the after parts of the fhip away from the curve abed,
and thus aids the revolution. We have therefore faid,
that when once the fails are taken fully aback, and
particularly when the wind is brought right ahead, it
is fcarce poflibie for the evolution to fail; as foon there¬
fore as the main topfail (trimmed for the other tack)
fhivers, we are certain that the headfails will be filled
by the time they are hauled round and trimmed. The
flay fails are filled before this, becaufe their fheets have
been ffufied, and they fland much {harper than the
fquate-lails 5 and thus every thing tends to check the
falling off from the wind on the other tack, and this
no fooner than it fhould be done. The fiiip immedi¬
ately gathers way, and holds on in her new courfe d G.
But it frequently happens, that in this converfion
the flop loles her whole progreffive motion. This
fometimes happens while the fails are fhivering before
they are taken fully aback. It is evident, that in this
caie there is little hopes of fuccefs, for the fhip now lies
like a log, and neither fails nor rudder have any a£lion.
The fliip drives to leeward like a log, and the water aid¬
ing on the lee fide'of the rudder checks a little the dri¬
ving of the hern. 'The head therefore falls off again,
and by and by the fails fill, and the fhip continues on
her former tack. This is called missing stays, and
it is generally owing to the fhip’s having too little ve¬
locity at the beginning of the evolution. Hence the
propriety of keeping the fails well filled for fome little
time before. Hough weather, too, by raifing a wave
which beats violently on the weather-bow, frequently
checks the firft luffing of the fhip, and beats her off again.
If the (hip lofe all her motion after the headfails
have been fully taken aback, and before we have
brought the wind right ahead, the evolution becomes
uncertain, but by no means defperate ; for the adlion
of the wind on the headfails will prefently give her ftern-
way. Suppefe this to happen when the fhip is in the po¬
fition C. Bring the helm over hard to windward, fo
that the rudder fliall have the pofition reprefented by
the (mail dotted line of. It is evident, that the refift-
ance of the water to the flern-'w ay of the rudder a£ls in
a favourable riireftion, puffiing the ftern outwards. In
the mean time, the aftion of the wind on the headfails
pufties the head in the oppofite dire&ion. Thefe ac-
* . tions
95
S E A M A
lions confpire therefore in promoting the evolution ; and
if the wind is right ahead, it cannot fail, but may even
be completed fpeedily, becaufe the Ihip gathers {tern-
way, and the action of the rudder becomes very power¬
ful ; and as foon as the wind comes on the formerly lee-
bow, the action of the water on the now lee-quarter will
greatly accelerate the converlion. "When the wind
therefore has once been brought nearly right ahead, there
is no rifk of being baffled.
But fhould the fhip have loft all her headway con-
fiderably before this, the evolution is very uncertain :
for the abtion of the water on the rudder may not be
nearly equal to its contrary action on the lee-quarter j
in which cafe, the adtion of the wind on the headfails
may not be fufticient to make up the difference. When
this is obferved, when the fhip goes aftern without
changing her pofition, we muft immediately throw the
headfails completely aback, and put the helm down
again, which will pay off the fhip’s head from the wind
enough to enable us to fill the fails again on the fame
tack, to try our fortune again 5 or we muft boxhaul
the fhip, in the manner to be defcribed by and by.
Such is the ordinary procefs of tacking fhip ; a pro-
cefs in which all the different modes of aftion of the
rudder and fails are employed. To execute this evolu¬
tion in the moft expeditious manner, and fo as to gain
as much on the wind as poffible, is confidered as the
left of an expert feaman. We have defcribed the pro¬
cefs which is belt calculated for enfunng the movement.
But if the fhip be failing very brilkly in fmooth water,
fo that there is no danger of miffing flays, we may gain
more to windward confiderably by keeping faft the
fore-top bowline and the jib and Itay-fail fheets till the
fquare-fails are all fhivering : For thefe fails, continuing
to draw with confiderable force, and balancing each
other tolerably fore and aft, keep up the fhip’s velocity
very much, and thus maintain the power of the rudder.
If we now let all fly when the fquare fails are fhivering,
the fhip may be confideied as without fails, but expofed
to the aftion of the water on the lee-bow ; from which
arifes a ftrong prefiure of the bow to windward, which
confpires with the aftion of the rudder to aid the con-
verfion. It evidently leaves all that tendency of the
bow to windward which arifes from leeway, and even
what was countera&ed by the formerly unbalanced ac¬
tion of thefe head-ftayfails. ’Ibis method lengthens the
whole time of the evolution, but it advances the fhip to
windward. Obferve, loo, that keeping faft the fore¬
top bowline till the fail fhivers, and then letting it go,
infures the taking aback of that fail, and thus inftantly
produces an aftion that is favourable to the evolution.
The moft expert feamen, however, differ among
themfelves with refpe6t to thefe two methods, and the
firft is the moft generally praflifed in the Britifh navy,
becaufe the leaft liable to fail. The forces wrhich op-
pofe the converfion are fooner removed, and the produc¬
tion of a favourable adlion by the backing of the fore¬
top-fail is alfo fooner obtained, by letting go the fore¬
top bowline at the firft.
Having entered fo minutely into the defeription and
rationale of this evolution, we have fufficiently turned
the reader’s attention to the different adlions which co¬
operate in producing the motions of converfion.- We
fhall therefore be yery brief in our defeription of the
other evolutions. _
N S H I P.
To wear Ship.
Whex the feaman fees that his (hip will not go a-
bout head to wind, but will mifs ftays, he muft change
his tack the other way } that is, by turning her head
away from the wind, going a little way before the wind,
and then hauling the w'ind on the other tack. This is
called WEARING or VEERING (hip. It is moft neceffary
in ftormy weather wdth little fail, or in very faint
breezes, or in a difabled (hip.
The procefs is exceedingly fimple •, and the mere nar¬
ration of the procedure is fufticient for (bowing the pro¬
priety of every part of it.
Watch for the moment of the drip’s falling off, and
then haul up the mainfail and mizen, and driver the
mizen topfail, and put the helm a-weather. When the.
(hip falls off fenfibly (and not before), let go the bow¬
lines. F.afe away the fore-ftieet, raife the fore tack, and.
gather aft the weather fore-ftreet, as the lee-ftreet is ea-.
fed away. Round in the weather-braces of the fore
and muin-mafts, and keep the yards nearly bife£ting th©
angle of the wind and keel, fo that when the drip is.
before the wind the yards may be fquare. It may even
be of advantage to round in the wTeather-braces of the
main-topfail more than thofe of the head-fails 3 for the
mainmaft is abaft the centre of gravity. All this
while the mizen-topfail muft be kept (hivering, by-
rounding in the wreather-braces as the (hip pays off
from the wind. Then the main top-fail will be braced
up for the other tack by the time that we have brought
the wind on the weather-quarter. After this it will
be full, and will aid the evolution. When the wind
is right aft, (hift the jib and day-fail (heels. The evo¬
lution now goes on wnth great rapidity 3 therefore briik-
ly haul on board the fore and main tacks, and haul out
the mizen, and fet the mizen-ftayfail as foon as they will
t^ke the wind the right way. WTe muft noxv check
the great rapidity wuth which the (hip comes to the.
wind on the ether tack, by. righting the helm before
we bring the wind on the beam 3 and all muft be trim-*
med (harp fore and aft by this time, that the headfails
may take and check the coming-to. AU being trim-,
med, (land on clofe by the wind.
We cannot help lofing much ground in this move¬
ment. Therefore, though it be very fimple, it requires
much attention and rapid execution to do it with as lit-*,
tie lofs of ground as poffible. One is apt to imagine at
firft that it would be better to keep the headfails braced
up on the former tack, or at leaft not to round in the
weather-braces fo much as is here direfled. When the
(hip is right afore the wind, we (hould expefl affiftance
from the obliquity of the head-fails 3 but the-the rudder,
being the principal agent in the evolution, it is found
that more is gained by increafing the fhip’s velocity,
than by a fmaller impulfe in the headfails more favour¬
ably directed. Experienced feamen differ, however, is*
their practice in refpeft of this particular,
To box-haul a Ship.
This is a procefs performed only in critical fituations,
as when a rock, a (hip, or fome danger, is fuddenly feen
right ahead, or when a (hip miffes ftays. It requires the
moft rapid execution.
The (hip being clofe-hauled on a wind, haul up the
mainfail ,
96
SEAMANS H I P.
mainfail and mizen, and fluver the top-fails, and put the
helm hard a-lee altogether. Raife the fore-tack, let
go the head bowlines, and brace about the headfails
lharp on the other tack. The (hip will quickly lofe
her way, get ftern-wTay, and then fall off, by the joint
action of the headiails and of the inverted rudder.
When (Ire has fallen off eight points, brace the after-
fails fquare, which have hitherto been kept thivering.
This will at firft increafe the power of the rudder, by
increafing the ftern-way, and at the fame time it makea
no oppofition to the converffon which is going on. -The
continuation of her circular motion will presently caufe
them to take the wind on their after lurfaces. Ihis
will check the ftern-way, ftop it, and give the {hip a
little head-way. Now fhift the helm, fo that the rud¬
der may again a£f in conjunction with the headiails in
paying her off from the wind. J his is the Ciitical part
of the evolution, becaufe the fhip has little or no way
through the water, and will frequently remain long in
this pofition. But as there are no counterafting forces,
the thip continues to fall off. ihen the w7eather-braces
of the after-fails may be gently rounded in, fo that the
wind a Cling on their hinder furfaces may both pufli the
{hip a little ahead and her ftern laterally in conjunc¬
tion with the rudder. Thus the wind is brought upon
the quarter, and the headfails ftiiver. By this time the
{hip has acquired fome headway. A continuation of tne
rotation would now fill the headfails, and then action
would be contrary to the intended evolution. They are
therefore immediately braced the other vay, nearly
fquare, and the evolution is now completed in the fame
manner with wearing {hip.
Some feamen brace all the fails aback the moment
that the helm is put hard a-lee, but the after-fails no
more aback than juft to fquare the yards. This quick¬
ly gives the ftiip ftern-way, and brings the.rudder into
addon in its inverted direClion •, and they think that the
evolution is accelerated by this method.
There is another problem of feamanlhip deferving of
Our attention, which cannot properly be called an evo¬
lution. This is lying-to. This is done in general by
laying fome fails aback, fo as to flop the head-way pro¬
duced by others. But there is a confiderable addrefs
neceffary for doing this in fuch a wTay that the {hip
{hall lie eafily, and under command, ready to proceed in
her courfe, and eafily brought under weigh.
To bring-to with the fore or main topfail to the maft,
brace that fail {harp aback, haul out the mizen, and
clap the helm hard a-lee.
Suppofe the fore topfail to be aback ; the other fails
{hoot the {hip ahead, and the lee-helm makes the {hip
come up to the wind, which makes it come more
perpendicularly on the fail which is aback. I nen its
impulfe foon exceeds thofe on the other fails, which are
now {hivering, or alrnoft {hivering. Ihe {hip {lands ftill
awhile, and then falls off, fo as to fill the after-fails,
which again {hoot her ahead, and the procefs is thus
repeate cb A {hip lying to in this way goes a good deal
ahead and alfo to leeward. It the mam topfail be
aback, the fnip {hoots ahead, and comes up till the di-
miniftied impulfe of the drawing fails in the direflion of
the keel is balanced by the increafed impulfe on the
main-top fail. She lies a long while in this pofition,
driving fiowly to leeward j and {he at laft falls off by the
4
beating of the water on her weather-bow. She falls off
but little, and foon comes up again.
Thus a ftiip lying-to is not like a mere log, but has
a certain motion which keeps her under command. To
get under weigh again, we muft watch tne time of fall¬
ing off'-, and when this is juft about to iinith, brace
about briikly, and fill the fail which was aback. To
aid this operation, the jib and fore-topmaft ilay-fail may
be hoifted, and the mizen brailed up : or, when the in¬
tended courfe is before the wind or large, back the fore-
topfail {harp, ftiiver the main and mizen topfail, brail
up the mizen, and hoift the jib and fore-topmaft ftay-
fails altogether.
In a ftorm with a contrary wind, or on a lee fliore, a
fhip is obliged to lie-to under a very low fail. Some fail
is abfolutely neceffary, in order to keep the {hip fteadi-
ly down, otherwife {he would kick about like a cork,
and roll fo deep as to ftrain and work herfelf to pieces.
Different {hips behave beft under different fails. In a
very violent gale, the three lower ftay-fails are in gene¬
ral well adapted for keeping her fteady, and diftribu-
ting the ftrain. This mode feems alfo well adapted for
wearing, which may be done by hauling down the mi-
zen-ftayfail. Under whatever fail the Ihip is brought-
to in a ftorm, it is always with a fitted fail, and never
with one laid aback. The helm is lalhed down hard
a-lee j therefore the {hip {hoots ahead, and comes up
till the fea on her weather-bow beats her off again. Get¬
ting under weigh is generally difficult j becaufe the {hip
and rigging are lofty abaft, and hinder her from falling
off readily when the helm is put hard a-weather. We
muft watch the falling off, and affift the {hip by fome
fmall headfail. ’ Sometimes the crew get up on the wea¬
ther fore-ffirowds in a crowd, and thus prefent a furface
to the wind.
These examples of the three chief evolutions will
enable thofe who are not feamen to underftand the pro¬
priety of the different fteps, and alfo to underftand the
other evolutions as they are deferibed by pra&ical au¬
thors. We are not acquainted with any performance
in our language where the whole are confidered in a
connefted and fyftematic manner. There is a book on
this fubjeft in French, called Lc Manceuvricr, by M.
Burde de Ville-Huet, which is in great reputation in
France. A tranfiation into Engliffi was publilhed fome
years ago. faid to be the performance of the Chevalier
de Saufeuil a French officer. But this appears to be a
bookfeller’s puff-, for it is undoubtedly the work of
fome oerfon who did not underftand .either the French
language, or the fubjeft, or the mathematical principles
which are employed in the fcientific part. Tire blun¬
ders are not fuch as couid poffioly be made by a I rench-
man not verfant in the Englifii language, but natural
for an Engliffiman ignorant of French. No French
gentleman or officer would have tranflated a work of
this kind (tvbich he profeffes to think fo highly pf) to
ferve the rivals and foes of his country. But indeed
it can do no great harm in this way for the fcientific
part of it is abfolutely unintelligible for want of fcience
in the tranflator and the practical part is full of blun¬
ders for want of knowledge of the French language.
We offer this account of the fubjeft with all proper
refpeft and diffidence. We do not profefs to teach :
t but
.
97
S E A M A
but by pointing out the defers of the celebrated works
of M. Bouguer, and the courfe which may be taken
to remove them, while we preferve much valuable know¬
ledge which they contain, we may perhaps excite fome
perfons to apply to this fubjeft, who, by a combination
N S H I R
of what is juft in M. Bouguer’s theory, with an expe¬
rimental dodtrine of the impulfes of fluids, may produce
a treatife of feamanfliip which will not be confined to
the libraries of mathematicians, but become a manual
for feamen by profeflion.
SEA
Seamen* SEAMEN, fuch perfons as ferve the king or others
““-vr—' at fea by navigation and fighting ftiips, &.c. See MA¬
RITIME State.
Seamen fighting, quarrelling, or making any difturb-
ance, may be punifhed by the commiflioners of the navy
with fine and imprifonment. Regiftered feamen are ex¬
empted from ferving in any parifli office, &c. and are
allowed bounty-money befide their pay. By the law of
merchants, the feamen of a veffel are accountable to the
mafter or commander, the mafter to the owners, and
the owners to the merchants, for. damage fuftained ei¬
ther by negligence or otherwife. Where a feamen is
hired for a voyage, and he deferts before it is ended,
he ffiall lofe his wages j and in cafe a ffiip be loft in a
ftorm, the feamen lofe their wages, as well as the owners
their freight.
Means of Preferring the Health of SEAMEN. See
Medicine, N° 351.
In addition to what has been faid on this fubjeft in
the place referred to, we fhall fubjoin fome valuable ob-
fervations which we have met with in the fixth volume
of the Memoirs of the Royal Society of Medicine at Pa¬
ris for the years 1784 and 1785*
In 1783, the marffial de Caftries, intending to make
fome changes in the regulations of the navy, particu¬
larly with regard to diet, propofed to the fociety the
two following queftions : 1. “ What are the moft whole-
fome aliments for feamen, confidering the impoffibility
of procuring them freffi meat ? And what kinds of fait
meat or fiffi, of pulfe, and of drink, are moft proper for
them, and in what quantity, not omitting to inquire
into the regimens in ufe amongft other maritime nations
for what may be adopted by us, and into what expe¬
rience has evinced the utility of, from the accounts of
the moft celebrated navigators ?” 2. “ A number of
patients labouring under different difeafes being affem-
bled in naval hofpitals, and different conftitutions af-
fefted by the fame difeafe requiring difference of diet,
what general dietetic rules for an hofpital would be beft
adapted to every exigence, dividing the patients into
three claffes •, the firft in which liquids alone are proper,
the fecond in which we begin to give folids in fmall
quantities, and the ftate of conValefcence in which a
fuller diet is neceffary ?” A committee was appointed
to draw up an anfwer to thefe, who inveftigated the
fubjeft very minutely. The refult of their labours is
there given at large. The obfervations moft worthy of
notice are, that the feurvy of the Engliffi feamen, who
live chiefly on falt-meat, is a putrid difeafe j whilft that
of the Dutch, who ufe farinaceous vegetables and dried
pulfe in large quantities, has more cl an hydropical
tendency. A mixture of both, even at the fame meal,
is recommended. This is fupported by philofophical
reafoning, and the example of Captain Cook, who wras
partly indebted to this mixed regimen for the preferva-
Vol. XIX. Part I.
SEA
tion of his crew. Salt fiflr fliould never be ufed : fait Seamen
beef growls hard, and after boiling its fibrous parts only !)
remain, which are more calculated to load the ftomach . SeaP°>-<1, .
than recruit the ftrength. Salt bacon may be kept at
fea 18 months; it does not lofe its moift and nutri-
mental parts, and unites better with pulfe, but ffiould
not be ufed wffien rancid. Live animals kept on board
(hips tend to produce difeafes amongft the crewu Rice
ffiould be ufed largely. Our puddings are bad food:
the flour wmuld be much better made into bread, which
might be done at fea with no great trouble. Sour krout
ffiould be ufed freely. Muftard, vinegar, fugar, melaf-
fes, and honey, are good antifcorbutics. Of drinks,
wine is the beft ; wTort, fpruce-beer, or the Ruffian quasy
are good fubftitutes. Spirits are only to be ufed in cold
climates, and in fmall quantity. The greater part of
the excellent memoir in anfwer to the fecond queftion,
perfeftly coincides wdth M. Duhamel du Monceaux’s
“ Means of Preferving the Health of Seamen,” and
M. Poiffonnier des Perrieres’s treatifes “ On the Dif¬
eafes of Seamen,” and “ On the advantages of changing
the Diet of Seamen,” and his “ Examination of Pringle’s
Differtation.”
SEAPOYS, or Sepoys, natives of Indoftan ferving
in a military capacity under the European powers, and
difeiplined after the European manner.
The Seapoys of the Englilh Eaft India company
compofe perhaps the moft numerous, regular, and beft
difeiplined body of black troops in the wrorld. They
are raifed from among the natives of the country, and
confift of Moors or Mahometans, Raja-poots, Hindoos,
Pariars, befides many intermediate cafts peculiar to
themfelves; the whole modelled in all correfponding
particulars, and difeiplined in every refpect as the army
of Great Britain.
The military eftabliffiments of Bengal, Madras and
Bombay, have each their refpedtive numbers, that of
Bengal exceeding the reft. The Seapoys are formed
into complete, uniform, and regular battalions, as our
marching regiments at home, being intended to xepre-
fent and anfwer fully to every purpofe in India to the
like troops in Europe. A battalion confifts of 700
men, of complete effective ftrength. In each there are
eight companies, including two flank ones or grena¬
diers. They are refpeftively commanded by their own
black and European officers ; to each company there
is attached a fubaltern, who takes the command, under
whom are two native commiffioned officers, bearing the
rank of fubidar and jimindar; of eight fubalterns, fix
are lieutenants, the other enfigns ; exclufive is a ftaft,
of adjutant and furgebn. The black non-commiffioned
officers anfwer to our ferjeants and corporals, and are
called havildars and naigues. There is alfo to each
corps an Engliih ferjeant-major, drill and ftore ferjeant;
to each battalion is a band of drums and fifes, and to
N e?xh
A captain commands the
S E
Scapoys. each a pair of colours.
y whole.
Their jackets, which are made entirely after the Eu¬
ropean fafhion, are of a red colour with yellow facings
(as worn by all the infantry of the company on the
Co romandel coaft). The remaining part of their at¬
tire refembles mere the country or Indian habit, and
conlifts of a dark blue turban, broad and round at
. top, defending deep to the bottom, the fides of which,
of a concave form, are crofied by a white band, running
in front, fattened under a rofe above. As an under
garment, they have a jacket of linen. A dark blue
fafh girding, to anfvver the turban, goes round their
middle. On the thighs they have fhort drawers, faf-
tened by a fcolloped band. Their legs are bare, which
renders them more ready for aftion or fervice. Their
arms are a firelock and bayonet ; their accoutrements
or crofs belts black leather, with pouches the fame.
A battalion drawn out cannot but ftrike the fpefta-
tors with a lively and fanciful military impreffion, as
they unite in their exterior traits refpedlively Indian and
European.
They are brought to the utmofl: exa&nefs of difci-
pline; go through their evolutions and manoeuvres with
a regularity and precifion ecpial to, and not furpaffed by
European troops. In aflion they are brave and fteady,
and have been known to Hand where Europeans have
given way.
Their difcipline puts them on a footing with Euro¬
pean troops, with whom they are always ready to aft
in concert.
Their utility and fervices are evident: they fecure to
the company the internal good order and prefervation
of their territorial diilrifts, which, though pofiible to be
enforced with a ftrong hand by Europeans, requires
numbers, and can only be condufted with that eafe and
addrefs peculiar to the native forces of the country.
They are confidered with refpeft in the eyes of the
other natives, though they fufficiently, and with a good
grace, feel and afiert theft own confequence. In large
garvifons, where the duty is great, as Madras, Pondi¬
cherry, Trichinopoly, Vellore, &c. two or three batta¬
lions might be prefent together, exclufive of Europeans.
Iffentfingly up the country, they are liable to be de¬
tached, fometimes by one or more companies being fent
to a llation dependent on the chief garrifon or head¬
quarters, otherwife they are difperfed through the di¬
ilrifts, four or five together, with a non-commiffioned
officer (this is a part of the fervice which is called going
on command'), on hills, or in villages, to preferve order,
convey intelligence, and affift the tafildar, renter, or
cutwall of the place, in cafes of emergency. They al-
fo enforce the police, and prevent in fuch cafes the coun¬
try from being infeiled.with thieves, which otherwife
have combined, forming a banditti, to rob paffengers
and plunder cattle, of which there are fo many inllances
upon record. As for fuch Britifir officers in the com¬
pany’s fervice as are attached to battalions, they are
obliged to follow the fortunes find deflinations of their
men, with their refpeftive corps, leading a life often
replete with adventures of a peculiar nature. An in¬
dividual in fuch cafes is frequently fecluded from thofe
of his own colour when up the country, or detached
upon command, where in a frontier garrifon or hill fort
in the interior parts of India none but natives are to be
[ 98 ] SEA
found. ^ Here he might live as he pleafe', being perfeft- Seap ys
3y abiolute within his jurifdiftion. Such Hal ions being
lucrative, with management may produce great for¬
tunes. Neither is the condition hard to a perfon conver-
fant in the language of the country, or that of the Sea-
poys called Moors (which mod officers in the company’s
fervice acquire) ; otherwife the lofs of fociety is not re-
compenfed by other advantages, as you forget your own
language, grow melancholy, and pafs your days without
comfort.
1 he peace efiablifliment at Madras confiils of 30 Sea-
poy battalions, but in time of war is augmented as oc-
cafion requires ; or frequently each corps is ftrengthen-
ed by the addition of two companies, which are redu¬
ced again in time of peace, the officers remaining fuper-
numeraries in the fervice. In garrifon they are quar¬
tered in barracks : they live agreeably to the ufage of
the country, fieep on the ground on a mat or thin car-
pet. In their perfons they are cleanly, but appear to
bed advantage in their uniform. Off duty they go as
the other natives in poor circumdances ; and have only
a cloth round their middle and over their Ihoulders. As
to the different cads, the Moormen or Muffulmen affert
pre-eminence, as coming into the country by conqued.
In their perfons they are rather robud, and in their
tempers vindiftive. Their religion and drefs is didinft
from the Hindoos, who are mild and paffive in their
temper, faithful, deady, and good foldiers. The Pa-
riars are inferior to the others, live under different cir¬
cumdances, dwell in huts, and affociate not on equft
terms with the red 5 they do all menial offices, are fer-
vants to Europeans, and think themfelves happy when
by them employed, though they are equally good Sea-
poys.
Having thus treated of the company’s Seapoys, we
lhall obferve that they are kindly attentive to their offi¬
cers when otten in circumdances requiring their affid-
ance 5 are guilty of few vices; and have a ftrong at¬
tachment for thofe who have commanded them. That
acute hiftorian Dr Robertfon has remarked, as a proof
that the ingenuity of man has recourfe in fimilar fitua-
tions to the fame expedients that the European powers,
have, in forming the eftablifliment of thefe native troops,
adopted the fame maxims, and, probably without know¬
ing it, have modelled their battalions of Seapoys upon
the fame principles as Alexander the Great did his
phalanx of Perfians.
SEARCH-WARRANT, in Law, a kind of general
warrant iffued by juftices of peace or magiftrates of
towns for fearching all fufpefted places for ftolen goods.
In Scotland this was often done formerly ; and in fome
Englifh law-books there are precedents requiring the
conftable to fearch all fuch fufpefted places as he and
the party complaining {hall think convenient ; but fuch
praftice is condemned by Lord Hale, Mr Hawkins, and
the beft authorities both among the Englifli and Scotch
lawyers. However, in cafe of a complaint, and oath
made of goods ftolen, and that the party fufpefts that
thofe goods are in a particular houfe, and fhows the
caufe of fuch fufpicion, the juftice may grant a warrant
to fearch not only that houfe but other fufpefted pla¬
ces ; and to attach the goods, and the parly in whofe
cuftody they are found, and bring them before him or
fome other juftice, to give an account how he came by
them, and to abide fuch order as to law (hall appertain ;
which
SEA [ s
Searcher veil loll warrant fhould be directed to the conftable or
li other public officer, who may enter a ffilpefted houfe
Sealoii'pg. an(| mai-e fearch.
' SEARCHER, an officer in the cuftoms, whofe bu-
finefs it is to fearch and examine ihips outwards bound,
if they have any prohibited goods on board, &c. (12
Car. II.). There are alfo fearchersof leather, &c. See
AtNAGER.
Searcher,, in ordnance, is an iron focket with
branches, from four to eight in number, a little bent
outwards, with fmall points at their ends j to this fock¬
et is fixed a wooden handle, from eight to twelve feet
long, of about an inch and a quarter diameter. After
the gun has been fired, this fearcher is introduced into
it, and turned round, in order to difeover the cavities
within. The diltances of thefe cavities, it any be
found, are then marked on the outfide with chalk, when
another learcher that has only one point, about which a
mixture of wax and tallow is put, is introduced to take
the impreffion oi the holes} and if there be any hole, a
quarter of an inch deep, or of any confiderable length,
the gun is rejected as unferviceable.
S E ARC LOT H, or Cerec loth, in Surgenj, a form
of external remedy fomewhat harder than an unguent,
yet fofter than an emplalter, though it is frequently
ufed both for the one and the other. The cerecloth is
always fuppofed to have wax in its compofition, which
diftinguilhes and even denominates it. In eflfedt, when
a liniment or unguent has wax enough in it, it does not
differ from a cerecloth.
SEASIN, in a Ihip, the name of a rope by which
the boat rides by the (hip’s fide when in harbour, &c.
SEASONING, the firft illnefs to which perfons
habituated to colder climates are fubject on their arrival
Mo relev on™ the Weft Indies. This feafoning, unlefs they live
Tropical very temperately, or are in a proper habit of body
DiJcafes, (though fome people are unmolefted for many months),
fieldom fuffers them to remain long before it makes its
appearance in fome mode or other 3 particularly if at
firft they expofe themfelves in a fhovyer of rain, or too
long in the fun, or in the night-air 3 or when the body
is much heated, if they drink large draughts of cold li¬
quors, or bathe in cold water 3 or ufe much exercife 3
or commit excefs in drinking wine or fpirits 3 or by
* heating the body and inflaming the blood 3 or by fub-
jeffing themfelves to any caufe that may fuddenly check
perfpiration, which at firft is generally exceftive.
Some people, from a favourable liate of body, have
no feafoning. Thin people, and very young people,
are moft likely to efcape it. Women generally do from
their temperance, and perhaps their menftruation con¬
tributes to their fecurity 3 indeed hot climates are fa¬
vourable to the delicacy of tneir habits, and fuitable to
their modes of life. Some efcape by great regularity
of living 3 fome, by the breaking out of the rafti, called
the prickly heat; fome by a great degree of perfpira¬
tion 3 and fome by obferving a cooling regimen. The
diforders are various that conflitute this (eafoning of
new-comers as-they are called 3 depending on age, con-
ftitution, and habit of body. But all feafoning difeafes
are of the inflammatory kind 3 and yield to antiphlo-
giftic treatment proportioned to their violence. When
all precaution to guard againft ficknefs has failed, and
prudence proved abortive to new-comers, they will have
this comfort at leaft for their pains, that their diforders
) ] S E B
will feldom be fevere or expenfive, and will generally Seafoning
have a fpeedy termination 3 and that their feafoning, as gebu£ej<
it is emphatically called, will be removed by bleeding, „—^ ^
a dofe of falls, reft, and a cooling regimen.
Seasoning of Timber. See Timber.
SEASONS, in Cofmography, certain portions or
quarters of the year, diftinguithed by the figns which
the fun then enters, or by the meridian altitudes of the
fun 3 confequent on which are different temperatures
of the air, different works in tillage, &c. See Wea¬
ther.
The year is divided into four feaffins, fpring, fum-
mer, autumn, and winter. Ihe beginnings and endings
of each whereof, fee under its proper article. It is to
be obferved, the feafons anciently began differently fiom
what they nowr do : witnefs the old verfes,
Dat Clemens hyemem ; dat Petrus ver cathedratus ;
JEfuat Urbanus ; auiumnat Bartholomccus.
SEAT, in the manege, is the pofture or fituation of
a horfeman upon the faddle.
SEATON, a fmall fifhing town on the feuth coaft
of Devon, between Lyme and Sidmouth. Rifdon fays
“ our learned antiquarians would have it to be that
Maridunum whereof Antonine fpake, placed between
Dunnovaria and Ifca 3 for Maridunum in Britiffi is the
fame with Seaton in Englifh, “ a town upon a hill by
the fea-ftde.” This place is memorable for the Daniih
princes landing therein the year 937’
SEBACIC acid, fo called, becaufe it is procured
from fat. For an account of its preparation and pro¬
perties, fee Chemistry, page 540. and N° 802.
St SEBASTIAN, a handfome, populous, and ftrong
town of Spain, in the province of Guipuicoa, with a
good and well frequented harbour. It is feated at the
foot of a mountain 3 and the harbour fecured by two
moles, and a narrow entrance for the fhips. The town
is furrounded with a double wall, and to the fea-fide is
fortified with baftions and half moons. The ftreets are
long, broad, and ftraight, and paved with white ftag-
ftones. At the top of the mountain is a citadel, with
a garrifon well furnifhed with cannon. The town car¬
ries on a confiderable trade, the greateft part of which ^
confifts of iron and fteel, which fome reckon to be the
beft in Europe. They alfo deal ki wood, which comes
from Old Caftile. W. Long. 1. 59. N. La). 43. 23.—
The capital of Brafil in Soufh America is likewife call¬
ed Sehaflian.
SEBASTIANO, called Del Piombo, from an office
in the lead mines given him by Pope Clement VII.
was an eminent Venetian^painter, born in 1485. He
was firfi: a difciple of oldTEovanni Bellino 3 continued
his ftudies under Giorgione 3 and having attained an
excellent manner of colouring, went to Rome, where
he infinuated himfelf into the favour of Michael Ange¬
lo. He has the name of being the firft who invented
the art of preparing plafter-walls for oil-painting 3 but
was fo flow and lazy in his work, that other hands were
often employed to finifh what he began. He died in
1547. •
SEBESTEN. See Cordia, Botany Index.
SEBU7EI, a fed among the ancient Samaritans,
whom St Epiphanius accufes of changing the time ex-
preffed in the law, for the celebration of the great an¬
nual feafts of the Jews.
N 2 - SEBURAI,
i
Seburai
I!
Secale.
SEC [i
SEBURAI, Seburjei, a name which the Jews give
to Rich of their rabbins or doftors as lived and taught
fome time after the finilhing of the Talmud.
SECACUL, in the Materia Mcdica of the ancients,
a name given by Avicenna, Serapion, and others, to a
root which was like ginger, and was brought from the
Eaft Indies, and ufed as a provocative to venery. The
interpreters of their works have rendered this word
irivgo ; and hence fome have fuppofed that our enjngium
or enjngo was the root meant by it: but this does not
appear to be the cafe on a ftrift inquiry, and there is
lome reafon to believe that the famous root, at this time
called ginfeng, was what they meant.
SEC ALE, Rye, a genus of plants belonging to the
tiiandria clals j and in the natural method ranking
under the 4th order, Gramina. See Botany and A-
cr 1 culture Index.
. iie or common rye, has glumes with rough
fringes. It is a native of the idand of Candia, was in-
troduced into England many ages ago, and is the only
ipecies of rye cultivated in this kingdom. There are,
however, two varieties, the winter and fpring rye.
The winter rye, which is larger in the grain than the
fpring rye, is fown in autumn-at the fame time with
wheat, and fometimes mixed with it; but as the rye
Jipens fooner than the wheat, this method muft be very
exceptionable. ^ The fpring rye is fown along with the
oats, and ulually ripens as foon as the winter rye ; but
the grain produced is lighter, and it is therefore fel-
dom iown except where the autumnal crop has failed.
Rye is commonly fown on poor, dry, limeftone, or
fandy foils, _ where wheat will not thrive. By continu¬
ing to fow it on fuch a foil for two or three years, it
will at length ripen a month earlier than that which has
been raifed for years on ftrong cold ground.
Rye is commonly ufed for bread either alone or mix¬
ed with wheat. Ihis mixture is called mejlin, and was
formerly a very common crop in fome parts of Britain.
Mr Marfhall tells us, that the farmers in Yorklhire be¬
lieve that this mixed crop is never affe£fed by mildew,
and that a fmall quantity of rye fown among wheat will
prevent this deflrublive difeafe. Rye is much ufed for
bread in fome parts of Sweden and Norway by the
poor people.. About a century ago rye-bread was alfo
much uled in England ; but being made of a black
Rind ot rye, it was of the fame colour, clammy, very
detergent, and confequently not fo nouriihing as w’heat.
Rye is lubjeft to a difeafe which the French call er-
got, and the Englith horned rije ; which fometimes hap¬
pens when a very hot fummer fucceeds a rainy fpring.
According to 1 iiTot, horned rye is fuch as fullers an
irregular vegetation in the middle fubflance between
tne grain and the leaf, producing an excrefcence of a
brownilh colour, about an inch and a half long, and
two-tenths of an inch broad. Bread made of this kind
or rye has a naufeous acrid tafte, and produces fpafmo-
dic and grangrenous diforders. In 1596, an epidemic
difeafe prevailed in Heffe, which the phylrcians afcribed
to bread made of horned rye. Some, wre are told,
were feized with an epilepfy, and thefe feldom ever re-
Secale
II
Seceders.
CO ] SEC
covered ; others became lunatic, and continued ftupid
the reft of their lives : thofe w?ho apparently recovered
had annual returns of their diforder in January and Fe¬
bruary ; and the difeafe was faid to be contagious at
lead in a certain degree. The fadbs which we have
now mentioned are taken from a work of Tiffot, which
was never printed. The fame difeafe was occafioned
by the. ufe of this bread in feveral parts of the con¬
tinent in the years 1648, 1675, 1702, 1716, 1722,
and 1736} and has been very minutely defcribed by
Hoffman, A. O. Goelicke, Vater Burghart, and J. A.
Snnk.
In the year 1709, one fourth part of all the rye
railed m the province of Salonia in France was horn¬
ed and the furgeon to the hofpital of Orleans had no
lels than 500 patients under his care that were diftem-
pered by eating it: They were called ergots, from er-
got (a), the French name for horned rye ; they confift-
ed chiefly of men and boys, the number of women and
ghls being very fmall. Ihe lirfl: fymptom was a kind
of drunkennefs, then the local diforder began in the toes,
and thence extended fometimes to the thigh, and the
trunk itfelf, even after amputation, wdiich is a good
argument againft that operation before the gangrene is
Hopped.
In the year 1710, the celebrated FonteneUe defcribes
a cafe in the Hiftory of the Academy of Sciences of
France, which exadly refembles that of the poor fa¬
mily at Wattilham. A peafant at Blois, who had eaten
horned rye in bread, was feized with a mortification
which firff caufed all the toes of one foot to fall off,
then the toes of the other, afterwards the remainder of
the feet, and, lallly, it ate off the flelh of both his legs
and thighs, leaving the bones bare. &
Horned, rye is not only hurtful to man, but to other
animals ; it has been known to deftroy even the flies
that fettled upon it ; Iheep, dogs, deer, geefe, ducks,
fwine, and poultry, that were fed with it for experi¬
ment, died miferably, fome convulfed, others mortified
and ulcerated.
. SECANT, in Geojnetry, a line that cuts another or
divides it into parts. The fecant of a circle is a line
drawn from the circumference on one fide to a point
without the circumference on the other; and it is de-
mon ft rated by geometers, that of feveral fecants drawm
to the fame point, that, is the longeft which paffes
thiough the centre of the circle. The portions, h©wTever,
of thefe feveral fecants that are without the circle are fo
much the greater as they recede from the centre, and
the leaft external portion is of that fecant which paffes
through it.
Secant, in Trigonometry, denotes a right line drawn
from the centre of a circle, which, cutting the circum¬
ference, proceeds till it meets with a tangent to the fame
circle. See Geometry.
Line of SECANTS, one of thofe lines or fcales which
are ufually put upon feftors. See Sector, n° 12. t
SECEDERS, a numerous body of Prefbyterians in Secederj.
Scotland, who have withdrawn from the communion
of the eftablifhed church. As they take up their
ground
ls Frencil if°r a cock’s fpur, and horned rye w'as called ergot from the refemblance of its excrefcence
to tiiat part.
SEC
[
Seceders. ground upon the eftablifhment of religion from 1638 to
1650, which they hold to be the pureft period of the
Scottiih church, we (hall introduce our account of them
by a ihort view of ecclefiaftical hiitory from that pe¬
riod to the era of their feceffion. With our ufual can¬
dour and impartiality we mean to give a fair ftatement
of thofe events with which, as they lay, their feceflion is
connected.
James I. having for fome time previous to his death
entertained a wiih to form the church of Scotland as
much as poffible upon the model of that in England,
his fon Charles, with the ailiftance of Archbiihop Laud,
endeavoured to carry the defign into execution, by eda-
blilhing canons for ecclefiaftical difcipline, and introdu¬
cing a liturgy into the public fervice of the church.—
Numbers of the clergy and laity of all ranks took the
alarm at what they confidered to be a bold and dan¬
gerous innovation j and after frequent applications to
the throne, they at laft obtained the royal proclamation
for a free parliament and general affembly. The aflem-
bly met in 1638, and began their labours with a repeal
of all the a£ts of the fix preceding parliaments, w7hich
had favoured the defigns of James. They condemned
the liturgy, together wuth every branch of the hierarchy.
They cited all the Scottiih bilhops to their bar j and
after having excommunicated nine of them, and depofed
five from their epifcopal office, they reftored kirk-fef-
fions, prelbyteries, and fynods provincial as well as na¬
tional. See Presbyterians.
Thefe proceedings were ratified by the parliament
which met in 1640. The law of patronage was in full
force for feveral years after this period 5 yet great care
was taken that no minifter ffiould be obtruded on the
Chriftian people contrary to their inclinations j and in
1649 it was abolilhed as an oppreffive grievance.
The reftoration of Charles II. in 1660 changed the
face of affairs in the church of Scotland. All that the
general affembly had done from 1638 to 1650 was ren¬
dered null and void, the covenants were pronounced to
be unlawful, epifcopacy was reftored, and the king was
declared to be the fupreme head of the church in all
caufes civil and ecclefiaftical. During this period the
Prefbyterians were fubjefted to fines and imprifonment,
while numbers of them were publicly executed for their
adherence to their political and religious tenets.
The Revolution in 1688 gave a different turn to the
affairs of the church. The firft parliament which met
after that event, abolifhed prelacy and the king’s fupre-
macy in ecclefiaftical affairs. They ratified the Weft-
minfter Confeffion of Faith, together with the Prefby-
terian form of church-government and difcipline, “ as
agreeable to the word of God, and moft conducive to
the advancement of true piety and godlinefs, and the
eftablithment of peace and tranquillity within thefe
realms.” That fame parliament aboliffied patronage,
and lodged the eleftion of minifters in the hands of
heritors and elders, with the confent of the congre¬
gation.
In the reign of Queen Anne the true Proteftant re¬
ligion was ratified and eftabliffied, together with the
Prefbyterian form of church-government and difcipline j
and the unalterable continuance of both was declared to
be an effential condition of the union of the two king¬
doms in all time coming. ' In 1 ■y 1 2 the law refpefling
patronage was revived, in refentment, it has been faid,
01 ] SEC
of that warm attachment which the church of Scotland Seceder*,.
difcovered to the family of Hanover j but the feverity «-v~J
of that law was greatly mitigated by the firft parliament
of George I. ftat. 50. by which it is enadled, that, if
the prefentee do not fignify his acceptance, the prefen-
tation ffiall become void and null in law. The church,
however, did not avail herfelf of this ftatute 5 and an
event which happened not many years afterwards gave
rife to the fecejjion.
In 1732 more than 40 minifters prefented an addrefs^j
to the general affembly, fpecifying in a variety of in- ° *
fiances what they confidered to be great defeftions from
the eftabliftied conftitution of the church, and craving
a redrefs of thefe grievances. A petition to the fame
effeft, fubfcribed by feveral hundreds of elders and pri¬
vate Chriftians, was offered at the fame time j but the
affembly refufed a hearing to both, and enafted, that
the eleilion of minifters to vacant charges, where an ac¬
cepted prefentation did not take place, fhould be com¬
petent only to a conjumft meeting of elders and heri¬
tors, being Proteftants. To this aft many objeftions
were made by numbers of minifters and private Chri¬
ftians. They afferted that more than 30 to one in
every pariftr were not poffeffed of landed property, and
were on that account deprived of what they deemed,
their natural right to choofe their own paftors. It was
alfo faid, that this aft was extremely prejudicial to the
honour and intereft of the church, as well as to the edi¬
fication of the people 5 and in fine, that it was dircftly
contrary to the appointment of Jefus Chrift, and the-
praftice of the apoftles, when they filled up the firft:
vacancy in the apoftolic college, and appointed the
eleftion of deacons and elders in the primitive church.
—Many of thofe alfo who were thought to be the
belt friends of the church, expreffed their fears that
this aft would have a tendency to overturn the ecclefi-
aftical conftitution which was eftabliftied at the Revo¬
lution.
Mr Ebenezer Erfkine, minifter at Stirling, diftin- They op-
guiftied himfelf by a bold and determined oppofition to pofe the
the meafures of the affembly in 1732. Being at that meafures ^
time moderator of the fynod of Perth and Stirling,. he^^er.al
opened the meeting at Perth with a fermon from Pfalm * *
cxviii. 22. “ The ftone which the builders rejefted is
become the head ftone of the corner.” In the courfe
of his fermon he remonftrated with no fmall degree of
freedom againft the aft of the preceding affembly with
regard to the fettlement of minifters, and alleged that-
it was contrary to the wmrd of God and the eftablifti¬
ed conftitution of the church. A formal complaint'
was lodged againft him for uttering feveral offenfive ex-
preffions in his fermon before the fynod. Many of
the members declared that they heard him utter no¬
thing but found and feafonable doftrine ; but his accu-
fers infifting on their complaint, obtaihed an appoint¬
ment of a committee of fynod to colleft what w7ere
called the offenfive expreffions, and to lay them before
the next diet in writing. This was done accordingly 5
and Mr Erfkine gave in his anfwers to every article of
the complaint. After three days warm reafoning on
this affair, the fynod by a majority of fix found him
cenfurable j againft which fentence he protefted, and por
appealed to the next general affembly. When the af-their mini-
fembly met in May 1733, it affirmed the fentence of<ters are
the fynod, and appointed Mr Erlkine to be rebuked Cenfurc£b*
and
SEC [ 102 1 SEC
Seceders. and admonirtied from the chair. Upon which he pro-
‘ tefted, that, as the affembly liad found him cenfurable,
and had rebuked him for doing what he conceived to
be agreeable to the word of God and the ftandards of
the church, he Ihould be at liberty to preach the fame
truths, and to teftify againlf the fame or fimilar evils, on
every proper occafion. To this protell Mefl’rs Wil¬
liam Wilfon minifter at Perth, Alexander Moncrief
minifter at Abernethy, and James Fifher miniller at
Kinclaven, gave in a written adherence, under the form
of inltrument; and thefe four withdrew, intending to
return to their relpedlive charges, and a£t agreeably to
their proteft whenever they fhould have an opportuni¬
ty. Had the affair reded here, there never would have
been a feceflion ; but the affembly refolving to carry
on the procefs, cited them by their officer to compear
next day. They obeyed the citation; and a committee
was appointed to retire with them, in order to perfuade
them to withdraw their proteft. The committee ha¬
ving reported that they ftill adhered to their proteft,
the affembly ordered them to appear before the com-
miflion in Auguft following and retraff their proteft j
and if they fhould not comply and teftify their fur¬
row for their conduff, the commiftion was empowered
to fufpend them from the exeicife of their miniftry,
with certification that if they Ihould aft contrary to faid
fentence, the commiftion ftiould proceed to an higher
cenfure.
5 The commiftion met in Auguft accordingly ; and the
fYoirTthe1 ^our mini tie is ftill adhering to their proteft, were fuf-
exercife of pended from the exercife of their office, and cited to
their office, the next meeting of the commiftion in November fol¬
lowing. From this fentence feveral minifters and elders,
members of the commiftion, diffented. The commif-
fion met in November, and the fufpended minifters
compeared. Addreffes, reprefentations, and letters from
leveral fynods and prelbyteries, relative to the bufinefs
now before the commiftion, were received and read.
The fynods of Dumfries, Murray, Rofs, Angus and
Mearns, Perth and Stirling, craved that the commif-
fion would delay proceeding to a higher cer.fure. The
fynods of Galloway and Fife, as alfo the preibytery of
Dornoch, addreffedthe commiftion for lenity, tendernefs,
and forbearance, towards the fufpended minifters; and
the prefbyteiy of Aberdeen reprefented, that in their
judgement, the fentence of fufpenfion inflifted on the
torefaid minifters was too high, and that it was a ftretch
e, of ecclefiaftical authority. Many members of the com¬
miftion reafoned in the lame manner, and alleged that
the aft and fentence of laft affembly did not oblige them
to proceed to an higher cenlure at this meeting of the
commiftion. The queftion, however, was put, Proceed
to an higher cenfure, or not ? and the votes being
numbered, were found equal on beth fides : upon which
Mr John Goldie the moderator gave his calling vote
to proceed to a higher cenfure ; which Hands in their
minutes in thefe rvords : “ The commiftion did and
hereby do loofe the relation of Mr Ebenezer Eifkine
minifter at Stirling, Mr William Wilfon minifter at
Perth, Mr Alexander Moncrief minifter at Abernethy,
6 and Mr James Filher minifter at Kinclaven, to their re¬
deprived of fpeftive charges, and declare them no longer minifters
their h- Df this church j and do hereby prohibit all minifters of
vlnSs; this church to employ them, or any of them, in any mi-
nifterial funftion. And the commiffion do declare the
2
churches of the faid minifters vacant from and after the Seceders.
date of this fentence.” '—‘"'v -r
This fentence being intimated to them, they proteft-
ed, that their minifterial office and relation to their re-
Ipeftive charges ftiould be held as valid as if no fuch
fentence had paffedj and that they were now obliged to
make a fecejjion from the prevailing party in the eccleiia-
ftical courts j and that it lhall be lawful and warrantable
for them to preach the gofpel, and difeharge every branch
of the paftoral office, according to the word of God and
the eftabliihed principles of the church of Scotland. Mr
Ralph Eilkine minifter at Dunfermline, Mr Thomas
Mair minifter at Orwel, Mr John M£ J^aren minifter at
Edinburgh, Mr John Currie minifter at Kinglaffie, Mr
James Wardlaw minifter at Dunfermline, and Mr Tho¬
mas Nairn minifter at Abbotfhal, protetled againft the
fentence of the commiflion, and that it ftiould be lawful
for them to complain of it to any lubfequent general af¬
fembly of the church.
The feceffion properly commenced at this date. And
accordingly the tjetted minifters declared in their pro¬
teft that they were laid under the difagreeable neceffity
of feceding, not from the principles and conftitution of
the church of Scotland, to which, they faid, they fted-
faftly adhered, but from the prefent church-courts,
which had thrown them out from minifterial communion.
The affembly, however, which met in May 1734 did fo
far modify the above fentence, that they empowered
the fynod of Perth and Stirling to receive the ejeifted
minifters into the communion of the church, and reftore
them to their refpeftive charges; but with this exprefs
diredlion, “ that the faid fynod ftiould not take upon
them to judge of the legality or foimality of the former
procedure of the church judicatories in relation to this
affair, or either approve or cenfure the fame.” As this
appointment neither condemned the acl of the prece¬
ding affembly nor the conduft of the commiflion. the
feoeding minifters confidered it to be rather an aft of
grace than of juftice, and therefore they faici they could
not return to the church-courts upon this ground ; and
they publifhed to the world the reafons of their refufal,
and the terms upon which they were willing to return
to the communion of the eftablilhed church. They now
erefted themfelves into an ecclefiaftical court, which they
called the A ffbciated Prejbytery, and preached occafion-
ally to numbers of the people who joined them in differ¬
ent parts of the country. They alfo publiftied what
they called an AB, Declaration, and Tejiimony, to the
doftrine, worftiip, government, and difeipline of the
church of Scotland, and againfl feveral inftances, as
they faid, of defeftion from thefe, both in former and in
the prefent times. Some time after this feveral minifters
of the eftabliihed church joined them, and the Affociat-
ed Prelbytery now confifted of eight minifters. But
the general affembly which met in 1738 finding that
the number of Seceders was much increafed, ordered
the eight minifters to be ferved with a libel, and to be
cited to the next meeting of the affembly in 1739.
They now appeared at the bar as a conftituted prelby¬
tery, and having foimally declined the affembly’s autho- 7
rity, they immediately withdrew. The affembly which and degra-
met next year depofed them from the office of the mini- ^
flry •, which, however, they continued to exercife in
their refpeftive congregations, who ftill adhered to them,
and erefted meeting houfes, where they preached till
their
8
They di¬
vide among
themfelves
about the
legality of
the burgeis
oath,
sec r i
Seceders their death. Mr James Fifher, the lad furvlvor of them,
”r v ' “' was, by an unanimous call in 1741, translated from
Kinclaven to G.afgow, where he continued in the exer-
cife of his minidry among a numerous congregation,
refpe&ed by all ranks in that large city, and died in
1775 much regretted by bis people and friends. In
1745 the feceding minilters were become fo numerous,
that they were erected into three different prelbyteries,
under one fynod, when a very unprofitable difpute di¬
vided them into two parties.
The burgeis oath in fome of the royal boroughs of
Scotland contains the following claule: “ I profefs
and allow rvith my heart the true religion prefently
profeffed within this realm, and authorized by the laws
thereof. I will abide at and defend the fame to my
life’s end, renouncing the Romifh religion called Pa-
pijlryP Meffrs Ebenezer and Ralph Erlkine, James
Fifher, and others, affirmed that this claufe was no way
contrary to the principles on which the feceflion -was
formed, and that therefore every Seceder might lawfully
fwear it. Meffrs Alexander Moncrief, Thomas Mair,
Adam Gib, and others, contended on the other hand
that the fwearing of the above claufe was a virtual re¬
nunciation of their teffimony. And this controverfy was
fo keenly agitated, that they fplit into two different
parties, and now met in different fynods. Thofe of
them who alfert the lawfulnefs of fwearing the burgefs
oath are called Burghers, and the other party who con¬
demn it are called Antiburgher Seceders. Each party
claiming to itfelf the lawful conftitution of the Ajjbciatc
Synod, the Antiburghers, after feveral previous Reps,
excommunicated the Burghers on the ground of their
fin and of their contumacy in it. This rupture took
place in 1747, fince which period no attempts to effect
a reunion have been fuccefsful. They remain under the
jurifdidtion of different fynods, and hold feparate com¬
munion, although much of their former hoftility has
been laid afide. The Antiburghers confider the Burgh¬
ers as too lax and not fufficiently ftedfait to their tef-
timony. The Burghers on the other hand contend
that the Antiburghers a-fe too rigid, in that they have
introduced new term^ of communion into the fociety.
The Anliburghers having adopted ideas with regard to
what they call covenanting, which the Burghers never
approved (a), have been in ufe of renewing in their
feveral congregations the Scottiffi Covenant, by caufing
their people formally fwear to maintain it. In other
refpe£!s the differences between the two parties are not
material. The Antiburghers are moft numerous on
P
and form
feparate
communi¬
ons
03 ]  SEC
the north of the Tay, and the Burghers on the fouth Secedes.*.
of it. "T-T" *
What follows in this article is a further account ofHjftQry0f
thofe who aie commonly called the Burgher Seceders. tjie Burgh-
Thefe have a greater number of people in their com- er beceders.
munion than the Anliburghers, and for fome years
paft they have greatly ineveafed in the fouthern and
weftern diflridls of Scotland. As there were among
them from the commencement of their feceffion feveral
fludents who had been educated at one or other of the
univerfities, they appointed one of their minifters to give
leftures in theology, and » ain up candidates for the
miniftry. Meffrs William Wilfon minifter at Pertly
and Alexander Moncrief minifter at Abernethy were
their prdfefiors of theology before their feparation from
the Antiburghers.
Since that period Mr Ebenezer Erfkine minifter at
Stirling, Mr James Eifher minifter at Glafgow, Mr
John Swanfton minifter at Kinrofs, and Mr John Brown
minifter at Haddington, have fuccecded each other in
this office. At prefent Mr George Lawfon minifter
at Selkirk is their profeffor of theology, and there
• are between thirty and forty ftudents who attend his
le£lures annually. The number of their minifters is
about an hundred, and each of their congregations
contains from two hundred and fifty to three thou-
fand perfons; and there are among them at prefent
more than twenty vacant charges. Where a congrega¬
tion is very numerous, as in Stirling, Dunfermline, and
Perth, it is formed into a collegiate charge, and provi¬
ded with two minifters. They are erefted into fix dif¬
ferent prelbyteries, united in one general fynod, which
commonly meets at Edinburgh in May and Septem¬
ber (b). They have alfo a fynod in Ireland compofed
of three or four different prefby teries. They are legally
tolerated in Ireland ; and government fome years ago
granted 500I. per annum, and of late an additional
500I. which, when divided among them, affords to
each minifter about 20I. over and above the ftipend
which he receives from his hearers. Thefe have befides
a prefoytery in Nova Scotia ; and fome years ago, it is x
faid, that the Burgher and the Antiburgher minifters re-
fiding in the United States formed a coalition and
joined in a general fynod, which they call the Synod of
Phew York and Pennfylvania. They all preach the doc¬
trines contained in the Weftminfter Confeffion of Faith
and Catechifms, as they believe thefe to be founded on
the facred feriptures. They catechife their hearers
publicly, and vifit them from houfe to houfe once every
year.
(a) This is the account which the Burghers give of their own notions refpedting the covenant. One of the
moft enlightened of their opponents, however, affures us that they acknowledge covenanting to be a moral duty,
and that the folemn vows of our anceftors are obligatory. But fince the breach in the fynod they have never en¬
gaged in this work 5 giving, as their reafon, that this is not the proper feafon.
(b) The conftitution of the Antiburgher church differs very little from that of the Burghers. The fupreme
court among them is defigned The General A[fociate Synod, having under its jurifdiftion three provincial lynods
in Scotland and one in Ireland. In the former country there are eleven prefbyteries j in the latter, four. 1 hey
have a few’ congregations in England, and a prefbytery in connedtion with them in North America. The
number of minifters belonging to the general fynod is a hundred and thirty-feven •, and in Scotland there are
nineteen vacancies. They, as well as the Burgher Seceders, have a profeffor of theology, vvhofe ledlures every
candidate for the office of a preacher is obliged to attend, we have been told, for no Ids than five or fix^eflions 1
Surely the feflion muft be of fliort duration.
/
Seceders.
11
^Their rules
of faith,
SEC [ i
(year. They will not give the Lord’s fupper to thofe
who are ignorant of the principles of the gofpel, nor to
fuch as are fcandalous and. immoral in their lives.
They condemn private baptifm, nor will they admit
thofe who are grofsly ignorant and profane to be fpon-
fors for their children. Believing that the people have
a natural right to choofe their own pallors, the fettle-
ment of their minilfers always proceeds upon a popu¬
lar eledtion j and the candidate who is elefted by the
majority is ordained among them. Convinced that the
charge of fouls is a trull of the greatell importance,
they carefully watch over the morals of their Undents,
and diredl them to fuch a cburfe of reading and lludy
as they judge moll proper to qualify them for the pro¬
fitable difcharge of the paltoral duties. At the ordina¬
tion of their minillers they ufe a formula of the fame
kind with that of the ellablilhed church, which their
minillers are bound to fubfcribe when called to it; and
if any of them teach dodlrines contrary to the Scriptures
or the Weltminller Confeffion of Faith, they are fure of
being thrown out of their communion. By this means
uniformity of fentiment is preferved among them ; nor
has any of their minillers, excepting one, been profecuted
for error in doftrine fince the commencement of their
fecellion.
They believe that the holy fcriptures are the foie
criterion of truth, and the only rule to diredl mankind
to glorify and enjoy God, the chief and eternal good}
and that “ the Supreme Judge, by which all controver-
fies of religion are to be determined, and all the decrees
of councils,. opinions of ancient writers, doflrines of
men and private fpirits, are to be examined, and in
whofe fentence we are to reft, can be no other but the
Holy Spirit fpeaking in the Scriptures.” They are
fully perfuaded, however, that the ftandards of public
authority in the church of Scotland exhibit a juft and
confiftent view of the meaning and defign of the holy
fcriptures with regard to doflrine, w'orlhip, government,
and difcipline} and they in fo far differ from the diffent-
ers in England, in that they hold thefe ftandards to be
not only articles of peace and a tell of orthodoxy, but
as a bond of union and fellowfhip. They conlider a
fimple declaration of adherence to the fcriptures as too
equivocal a proof of unity in fentiment, becaufe Arians,
Socinians, and Arminians, make fuch a confeffion of
tneir faith, while they retain fentiments which they
(the Seceders) apprehend are fubverfive of the great doc¬
trines of the gofpel. They believe that Jefus Chrift
is. the only King and Head of the Church, which is
his body } that it is his foie prerogative to ena£l laws
for the government of his kingdom, which is not of this
World } and that the church is not poffeffed of a legifla-
tive, but only of an executive power, to be exercifed in
explaining and applying to their proper objects and ends
thofe laws which Chrift hath publifhed in the fcriptures.
Ihofe ooftrines which they teach relative to faith and
p.raftice are exhibited at great length in an explana¬
tion ef the Weftminfter Affembly’s Shorter Catechifm,
by way of queftion ajid anfvver, in two volumes, com-
pofed chiefly by Mr James Fifher late of Glafgow, and
publilhed by defire of their fynod.
foi thefe 50 years paft, the grounds of their feceffion,
they allege, have been greatly enlarged by the public
admimftrations of the eftablifhed church, and particular¬
ly by the uniform execution of the law refpefling patro-
04 ] SEC
nage, which, they fay, has obliged many thoufands of Seeeders,
private Chriftians to withdraw from the parifli-churches 1 ni “
and join their fociety.
. is certain, however, that their number has rapidly
increafed of. late, elpecially in the large cities of the
kingdom.^ They have three different congregations in
Edinburgn, two in Glafgowq and two in London, be-
fides feveral others in the north of England. In moft
of their congregations they celebrate the Lord’s fupper
twice in the year, and they catechife their young people
concerning their .knowledge of the principles of religion
previoufly to their hdmiflion to that facrament. When
any of them, fall into the fin of fornication or adultery,
the fcandal is regularly purged according to the form
of procefs in the eftablilhed church} and thofe of the
delinquents who do not fubmit to adequate cenlure are
publicly declared Lo be fugitives from difcipline, and
are expelled the fociety. “I hey never accept a fum of
money as a commutation for the offence. They con¬
demn all clandeftine and irregular marriages, nor will
they marry any perfons unlefs they have been proclaimed
in the pariih-church on two different Lord’s days at leaft. r2
When they feparated from the eftablilhed church,ar|d politic
they remained firm in their attachment to theftate; andcal Princi“
they were not many years formed into a diftinft fociety,pIe5‘
when they, expelled from their communion a Mr Thomas
Nairn minifter at Kirkcaldy, who had taught dodlrines
inimical to the civil government of the nation. In 1745
there was not one of their number who joined the pre¬
tender to the Britiffi crown. They are ftill of the fame
fentiments} and in their public affemblies they always
pray for our fovereign King George, with the royal fa¬
mily, and for all who are in authority under them. They
are fo far from wiftiing the overthrow of the prelent ci¬
vil government, that when the nation was lately in dan*
ger of being thrown into a fermentation by the circula¬
tion of inflammatory and feditious writings, they wTarmly
recommended peace and order in lociety. Ihe fame re¬
marks, ive believe, are equally, applicable to the Anti¬
burgher feceders. No legal difqualifications, as in the
cafe of the diffenters in England, exclude them from
any place of public trull in the municipal government
of the country } and fome of them are frequently in the
magiftracy of the royal boroughs. They are not, how¬
ever, legally tolerated, but are fupported by the mild-
nefs of adminiftration and the liberal fpirit of the times.
Avowing their adherence to the doftrines contained in
the public ftandards of the church of Scotland, together
with the prefbyterian form of government, from which
they never intended to fecede, they deny that they are
either fchifmatics or fedlaries, as they have been fre¬
quently called : and when they withdrew from the ec-
clefiaftical courts, they did not, they fay, conftitute a
church of their own, different from the national church,
but profefs to be a part of that church, endeavouring to
hold by her reformed principles, in oppofition to thofe
deviations from them which they have fpecified in their i t
A El and Teftimomj. Moft of them live in habits ofTiiea' m0*
friendlhip and intimacy with their brethren of the eila-<ierat‘°n*
Milkment, and they profefs an affectionate regard for
all thofe of every denomination who love Jefus Chrill
in fincerity and truth. In the late re-exhibition of their
teftimony, they have declared to the world, that, were
the grounds of their feceflion happily removed, they
Would account it one of the moft Angular felicities of
thpir
Sechiutn
II
Seeker.
SEC [i
their time to return with pleafure to the communion of
the eftablifhed church.
SECHIUJVT, a genus of plants belonging to the mo-
noecia clafs; and in the natural method ranking under
the 34th order, Cucurbitacece. See Botany Index.
SECKENDORF, Guy Lewis de, a very learned
German, defeended from an ancient and noble family,
was born at Aurach in Franconia in 1626. He was
a good linguift, learned in law, hiftory, and divinity j
and is faid to have been a tolerable painter and engra¬
ver. He was honourably employed by feveral of the
German princes; and died counfellor of Rate to Fre¬
deric III. elector of Brandenburg, and chancellor of
the univerfity of Halle, in 1692. He wrote many
books, particularly “ A hiftory and defence of the
Lutheran religion,” 2 vols folio, Frankfort, 1602, in
Latin.
SECKER, Thomas, a learned and refpe&able pre¬
late of the church of England, was born, in 1693, at a
village called Sibthorp, in the vale of Belvoir, in Not-
tinghamlhire. His father was a Proteftant diffenter, a
pious, virtuous, and fenfible man ; who, having a fmall
paternal fortune, followed no profeflion. His mother
was the daughter of Mr Brough, a fubftantial gentle¬
man farmer of Shelton in the fame county. He recei¬
ved his education at feveral private fchools and acade¬
mies in the country, being obliged, by various accidents,
frequently to change his mafters.
Notwithftanding this difadvantage, he had at the age
of 19 not only made confiderable progrefs in Greek and
Latin, and read the beft writers in both languages, but
had acquired a knowledge of French, Hebrew, Chaldee,
and Syriac j had learned geography, logic, algebra,
geometry, conic fe&ions, and gone through a courfe of
leisures on Jewifti antiquities and other points, prepara¬
tory to the critical ftudy of the Bible. He had been
deftined by his father for orders among the Diffenters.
With this view, during the latter years of his education,
his ftudies were chiefly turned towards divinity, in which
he had made fuch quick advances, that by the time he
was 23 he had carefully read over a great part of the
Scriptures, particularly the New Teftament, in the ori¬
ginal, and the beft comments upon it •, Eufebius’s Ec-
defiaftical Hiftory, The Apoftolical Fathers, Whifton’s
Primitive Chriftianity, and the principal writers for and
againft Minifterial and Lay Conformity.—But though
the refult of thefe inquiries was a w’ell-grounded belief
of the Chriftian revelation, yet not being at that time
able to decide on fome abftrufe fpeculative doftrines,
nor to determine abfolutely what communion he (hould
embrace ; he refolved, like a wife and honeft man, to
purfue fome profeflion, which {hould leave him at li¬
berty to weigh thofe things more maturely in his
thoughts, and not oblige him to declare or teach pub-
lidy opinions which were not yet thoroughly fettled in
his own mind.
In 1716, therefore, he applied himfelf to the ftudy of
phyfic, and after gaining all the medical knowledge he
Could, by reading the tifual preparatory books, and at¬
tending the beft leftures during that and the following
winter in London, in order to improve himfelf farther,
in January 171819 he went to Paris. There he lod¬
ged in the fame houfe with the famous anatomift Mr
Win flow, whofe ledures he attended, as he did thofe of
the materia medica, chemiftry, and botany, at the king’s
Vol. XIX. Part I. S
05 ] SEC
gardens. He law the operations of furgery at the He- Seeker
tel Dieu, and attended alfo for fome time M. Gregoire, V“
the accoucheur, but without any defign of ever prac-
tifing that or any other branch of furgery. Here he
became acquainted with Mr Martin Benfon, afterwards
bifhop of Gloucefter, one of the muft agreeable and vir¬
tuous men of his time j with whom he quickly became
much connected, and not many years after was united
to him by the ftri&eft bonds of aftinity as well as affec¬
tion.
During the whole of Mr Seeker’s continuance at Pa¬
ris, he kept up a conftant correfpondence with Mr Jo-
feph Butler, afterwards bilhop of Durham, with whom
he became acquainted at the academy of one Mr Jones,
kept firft at Gloucefter, and afterward at Tewkfbury.
Mr Butler having been appointed preacher at the Rolls
on the recommendation of Dr Clarke and Mr Edward
Talbot, fon to Bifhop Taibot, he now took occalion to
mention his friend Mr Seeker, without Seeker’s know¬
ledge, to Mr Talbot, who promifed, in cafe he chofe to
take orders in the church of England, to engage the
biflrop his father to provide for him. This was com¬
municated to Mr Seeker in a letter from Mr Butler
about the beginning of May 1720. Pie had not at
that time come to any refolution of quitting the ftudy
of phyfic $ but he began to forefee many obftacles to
his purfuing that profeflion j and having never difeonti-
nued his application to theology, his former difficulties
both with regard to conformity asd fome other doubtful
points had gradually leffened, as his judgement became
ftronger, and his reading and knowledge more exten-
five. It appears alfo from two of his letters ftill in be¬
ing, written from Paris to a friend in England, (both
of them prior to the date of Mr Butler’s above mention¬
ed), that he was greatly diffatisfiedr with the divifions
and difturbances which at that particular period prevail¬
ed among the Difl'enters.
In this ftate of mind Mr Butler’s unexpected propo-
fal found him; which he was therefore very well dilpo-
fed to take into confideration ; and after deliberating
on the fubject of fuch a change for upwards of two
months, he refolved at length to embrace the offer, and
for that purpofe quitted France about the beginning of
Auguil 1720.
On his arrival in England, he was introduced to Mr
Talbot, -with wdiom he cultivated a clofe acquaintance \
but it was unfortunately of very ffiort duration j for in
the month of December that gentleman died of the
fmallpox. This was a great ffiock to all his friends,
who had juftly conceived the higheft expe&ations of
him ; but efpecially to an amiable lady whom he had
lately married, and who was very near finking under fo
fudden and grievous a ftroke. Mr Seeker, befide {har¬
ing largely in the common grief, had peculiar reafon
to lament an accident that feemed to put an end to all
his hopes 5 but he had taken his refolution, and he
determined to perfevere. It wras fome encouragement
to him to find that Mr Talbot had, on his deathbed,
recommended him, together with Mr Benfon and Mr
Butler, to his father’s notice. Thus did that excellent
young man (for he was but 29 when he died), by his
nice difeernment of charafters, and his confiderate good
nature, provide moft effectually, in a few folemn mo¬
ments, for the welfare of that church from which he
himfelf vvas fo prematurely fnatched atvay 5 and at the
O fame
SEC [106
Seeker, fame lime raifed up, when he lead; tnougnt of it, the
■J~1' v truefi friend and proteiffor to his wife and unborn
daughter 5 who afterwards found in IVIr Secher all that
tender cave and afiiftance which they could have hoped
for from the neareft relation.
It being judged neceffary by Mr Seeker’s friends that
he fhould have a degree at Oxford ; and having been
informed, that if he fhould previoufly take the degree of
I3o£lor in Pliyfic at Leyden, it would probably help
him in obtaining the other, he w’ent over and took his
degree there in March lyii : and, as part of his exer-
cife for it, he compofed and printed a diflertation de
Medicina Static a, which is ftill exlant, and is thought
by the gentlemen of that profefhon to be a fenfibie and
learned performance.
In April the fame year, he entered himfelf a gentle¬
man commoner of Exeter college, Oxford j after which
he obtained the degree of Bachelor of Arts, in confe-
quence of the chancellor’s recommendatory letter to the
convocation.
He now fpent a confiderable part of his time in Lon¬
don, where he quickly gained the efleem ot lome of the
rooft learned and ingenious men of thofe days, particu¬
larly of Dr Clarke, redor of St James’s, and the cele¬
brated Dean Berkeley, afterwards biiliop of Cloyne,
with whom he every day became more delighted, and
more clofely connected. He paid frequent vilics ot gia-
titude and friendfhip to Mrs I albot, widow of Mr Ed¬
ward Talbot, by whom (lie had a daughter five months
after his deceafe. With her lived Mrs Catharine Ben-
fon, lifter to Bifhop Benfon, whom in many refpefls fhe
greatly refembled. She had been for feveral years Mrs
Talbot’s infeparable companion, and was of unfpeakable
fervice to her at the time of her hufhand’s death, by ex¬
erting all her courage, activity, and good fenfe (of which
fhe poffeffed a large (hare), to fupport her friend under
fo great an afflidtion, and by afterwards amending her
fickly infant with the utmoft care and tenderneis, to
which, under Providence, was owing the prefervation of
a very valuable life.
Bilhop Talbot being in 1721 appointed to the fee of
. Durham, Mr Seeker was in 1722 ordained deacon by
him in St James’s church, and prieft not long after in
the fame place, where he preached his firft fermon
March 28. 1723. The bifhop’s domeftic chaplain at
that time was Dr Bundle, a man of warm fancy and
verv brilliant converfation, but apt fometimes to be car¬
ried by the vivacity of his wit into indifereet and ludi¬
crous expreflions, which created him enemies, and, on
one occafion, produced difagreeable conlequences.——
With him Mr Seeker was foon after afibciated in the
bifhop’s family, and both taken down by his lordfhip to
Durham in July 1723.
In the following year the bifhop gave Mr Seeker the
xeftory of Houghton-le-Spring. This preferment put¬
ting it in his power to fix himfelf in the world, in a
manner agreeable to his inclinations, he foon after made
a propofal of marriage to Mrs Benfon •, which being ac¬
cepted, they were married by Bifhop Talbot in 1725.
At the earneft requeft of both, Mrs Talbot and her
daughter confented to live with them, and the two fa¬
milies from that time became one.
About this time Bifhop Talbot alfo gave preferments
to Mr Butler and Mr Benfon, whofe rife and progrefs
in the church is here interwoven with the hiftory of
SEC
Mr Seeker. In the winter of 1725-6, Mr Butler firft
publifhed his incomparable fevmons} on which, as Dr
Beilby Porteous and Dr Stinton inform us, Mr Seeker
took pains to render the ftyle more familiar, and the au¬
thor’s meaning more obvious : yet they were at laft by
many called obfeure. Mr Seeker gave bis friend the
fame affiftance in that noble work the Analogy of Reli¬
gion, See.
He now gave up all the time he poftibly could to his
refidence at Houghton, applying himfelf with alacrity
to all the duties of a country clergyman, and fupport-
ing that ufeful and refpeffable charaffer throughout
with the ftridteft propriety. He omitted nothing which
he thought would be of ufe to the fouls and bodies of
the people entrufted to his care. He brought down
his converfation and his fermons to the level of their
underftandings; he vifited them in private, he catechi-
fed the young and ignorant, he received his country
neighbours and tenants very kindly and holpitably, and
was of great lervice to the poorer fort of them by his
(kill in phyfic, which was the only ufe he ever made of
it. Though this place was in a very remote part of the
world, yet the folitude of it perfectly fuited his ftudious
difpofition, and the income arifing from it bounded his
ambition. Here he would have been content to live and
die 5 here, as he has often been heard to declare, be
fpent feme of the happieft hours of his life j and it was
no thought or choice of his own that removed him to
a higher and more confpicuous fituation j but Mrs See¬
ker’s health, which now began to decline, and was
thought to be injured by the dampnefs of the fituation,
obliged him to think of exchanging it for a more heal¬
thy one. Accordingly, an exchange was made through
the friendly interpofition of Mr Benfon (who generoufly
facrificed his own intereft on this occafion,^ by relin-
quiftung a prebend of bis own to ferve his friend) with
Dr Finney, prebendary of Durham, and redtor of By¬
ton ; and Mr Seeker was inftituted to Rylon and the
prebend June 3. 1727. For the two following years
he lived chiefly at Durham, going every week to offi¬
ciate at Ryton, and fpending there two or three months
together in the fummer.
In July 1732 he was appointed chaplain to the king ^
for which favour he was indebted to Dr Sherlock, who
having heard him preach at Balh, had conceived the
higheft opinion of his abilities, and thought them well
worthy of being brought forward into public notice.
From that time an intimacy commenced between them,
and he received from that great prelate many folid proofs
of efteem and friendftiip.
His month of waiting at St James’s happened to be
Seek
Auguft, and on Sunday the 27th of that month he
preached before the queen, the king being then abroad.
A few days after, her majefty fent for him into her clo-
fet, and held a long converfation with him , m the
courfe of which he took an opportunity of mentioning
to her his friend Mr Butler. He alfo, not long after
this, on Mr Talbot’s being made lord chancellor, found
means to have Mr Butler effe£tual]y recommended to
him for bis chaplain. The queen alfo appointed him
clerk of her clofet; from whence he rofe, as his talents
became more known, to thofe high dignities which he
afterwards attained.
Mr Seeker now began to have a public character,
and flood high in the eftimation of thofe who were al¬
lowed
SEC
Seeker. lowed to be tbe bed jadges of merit : be bad already
given proofs of abilities that plainly indicated the emi¬
nence to which he mud one day rife, as a preacher and
a divine ; and it was not long before an opportunity of¬
fered of placing him in an advantageous point of view.
Dr Tyrrwhit, who fucceeded Dr Clarke as reflor of
St James’s in 1729, found that preaching in fo large a
church endangered his health. Bifliop Gibfon, there¬
fore, his father-in-law, propofed to the crown that he
ihould be made refidentiary of St Paul’s, and that Mr
Seeker fhould fucceed him in the reflory. This arrange¬
ment was fo acceptable to thofe in power, that it took
place without any difficulty. Mr Seeker was inftituted
re£lor the i8th of May 1733 } and in the beginning of
July went to Oxford to take his degree of Do£lor of
Laws, not being of futheient Handing for that of divini¬
ty. On this occafion it was that he preached his cele¬
brated Act Sermon, on the advantages and duties of
academical education, which was univerfally allowed to
be a mafterpiece of found reafoning and juft compoft-
tion : it was printed at the defire of tbe heads of houfes,
and quickly paffed through feveral editions. It is now
to be found in the fecond colleftion of Occafional Ser¬
mons, publifhed by himfelf in 1766.
It was thought that the reputation he acquired by
this fermon, contributed not a little toward that pro¬
motion which very foon followed its publication. For
in December 1734, he received a very, unexpeffed no¬
tice from Bilhop Gibfon, that the king had fixed on him
to be bithop of Briftol. Dr Benfon was about tbe fame
time appointed to the fee of Gloucefter, as was Dr Fle¬
ming to that of Carlifle •, and the three new bifhops
were all confecrated together in Lambeth Chapel, Jan.
19. 1734-5, the confecration-fermon being preached by
Dr Thomas, afterwards bifhop of Winchefter.
The honours to which Dr Seeker was thus raifed in
the prime of life did not in the lead abate his diligence
and attention to bufinefs 5 for which, indeed, there was
now more occafion than ever. Flis learned biographers,
Meffrs Porteous and Stinton, now relate the manner in
which he fet about the vifitation of his diocefe, and the
ceremony of confirmation, which he performed in a
great number of places ; he alfo preached in feveral
churches, fometimes twice a-day. The affairs of his
parifii of St James’s being likewife in great diforder, he
took extraordinary pains to regulate and adjuft every
thing, particularly the management of the poor *, and
thus even in a temporal view became of fignal fervice to
his parifhioners. But, fay our authors, “ it was their
fpiritual welfare which engaged, as it ought to do, his
chief attention. As far as the circumftances of the
times, and the populoufnefs of that part of the metro¬
polis allowed, he omitted not even thofe private admo¬
nitions and perfonal applications which are often attend¬
ed with the happieft effedls. Pie allowed out of his
own income a (alary for reading early and late prayers,
which had formerly been paid out of the offertory mo¬
ney. He held a confirmation once every year, ex¬
amined the candidates feveral weeks before in the veftry,
and gave them religious trails, which he alfo diftributed
at other times vety liberally to thofe that needed them.
He drew up, for the ufe of his pariflnoners, that admi¬
rable courfe of LeBures on the Church Catechifm which
hath been lately publifhed, and not only read them once
every week on the ufual days, but alfo every Sunday
SEC
evening, either at the church or one of the chapels be- Se
longing to it.”
The fermons which at the fame time, we are told, he
fet himfelf to compofe, “ were truly excellent and origi¬
nal. Plis faculties were now in their full vigour, and
he had an audience to fpeak before that rendered the
utmoft exertion of them neceflary. He did not, how¬
ever, feek to gratify the higher part, by amufing them
with refined fpeculations, or ingenious effays, unintelli¬
gible to the lower part, and unprofitable to both ; but
he laid before them all, with equal freedom and plain-
nefs, the great Chriftian duties belonging to their re-
fpeiftive ftations, and reproved the follies and vices of
every rank among them, without diftin£tion or pallia¬
tion. He ftudied human nature thoroughly in all its
various forms, and knew what fort of arguments would
have moft weight with each clafs of men. Pie brought
the fubjedt home to their bofoms, and did not feem to
be merely faying ufeful things in their prefence, but ad¬
drefling himfelf perfonally to every one of them. Few
ever poffeffed, in a higher degree, the rare talent of
touching on the moft delicate fubjedls with the niceft
propriety and decorum, of faying the moft familiar
things without being low, the plaineft without being
feeble, the boldeft without giving offence. Fie could
defeend with fuch Angular eafe and felicity into the mi¬
nuted concerns of common life, could lay open with
fo much addrefs the various workings, artifices, and eva-
fions of the human mind, that his audience often thought
their own particular cafes alluded to, and heard with
furprife their private fentiments and feelings, their ways
of reafoning and principles of afting, exaftly dated and
deferibed. His preaching was, at the fame time, highly
rational, and truly evangelical. He explained with per-
fpicuity, he afferted with dignity, the peculiar charafteri-
ftic do&rines of the gofpel. Fie inculcated the utility,
the neceflity of them, not merely as fpeculative truths,
but as aflual inftruments of moral goodnefs, tending to
purify the hearts and regulate the lives of men ; and
thus, by God’s gracious appointment, as well as by the
infeparable connexion between true faith and right prac¬
tice, leading them to falvatiom
“ Thefe important truths he taught with the autho¬
rity, the tendernefs, the familiarity, of a parent inftruct-
ing his children. Though he neither poffeffed nor af-
fefted the artificial eloquence of an orator who wants
to amufe or to miflead, yet he had that of an honeft
man who wants to convince, of a Chriftian preacher
who wants to reform and to fave thofe that hear him.
Solid argument, manly fenfe, ufeful directions, fhort,
nervous, ftriking fentences, awakening queftions, fre¬
quent and pertinent applications of feripture 5 all thefe
following each other in quick fucceflion, and coming
evidently from the fpeaker’s heart, enforced by his elo¬
cution, his figure, his action, and above all, by the cor-
refponding famflity of his example, ftamped convidlion
on the minds of his hearers, and fent them home with
impreflions not eafy to be effaced. It will readily be
imagined that with thefe powers he quickly became one
of the moft admired and popular preachers of his time.”
In 1737 he fucceeded to the fee of Oxford, on the
promotion of Dr Potter to that of Canterbury, then va¬
cant by the death of Archbifhop Wake.
In the fpring of 1748, Mrs Seeker died of the gout
in her ftomach. She was a woman of great fenfe and
O 2 merit,
[ 107 ]
SEC
Seeker, merit, but of a weak and fickly conftitution.
fliop’s affedion and tendernefs for her was fuited to his
charader. In 1750, he was inllalled dean of St Paul’s,
for which he gave in exchange the redory of St James’s
and his prebend of Durham. “ It was no wonder (fay
our authors) that, after prefiding over fo extenfive and
populous a pariih for upwards of 17 years, he (hould
willingly confent to be releafed from a burden which be¬
gan now to grow too great for his ftrength. When he
preached his farewel lermon, the whole audience melted
into tears : he was followed with the prayers and good
wifhes of thofe whom every honeft man would be molt
ambitious to pleafe } and there are numbers ftill living
who retain a ftrong and grateful remembrance of his in-
ceffant and tender folicitude for their welfare. Having
now more leifure both to profecute his own {Indies and
to encourage thofe of others, he gave Dr Church con-
nderablc alfiltance in his Tirji and Second Vindication of
the Miraculous Powers, &c. againft Dr Middleton, and
he was of equal ufe to him in his Analyjis of Lord Bo-
iingbroke''s Works. About the fame time began the late
Archdeacon Sharp’s controverfy with the follow’ers of
Mr Hutchinfon, which was carried on to the end of
the year 1755.” Bilhop Seeker, we are told, read over
all Dr Sharp’s papers, amounting to three volumes 8vo,
and corredted and improved them throughout. But the
eafe which this late change of fituation gave him w^as
foon diflurbed by a heavy and unexpedfed ftroke, the
lofs of his three friends, Biflrops Butler, Benfon, and
Berkeley, who were all cut off within the fpace of one
year.
Our authors next give an account of the part which
Dr Seeker bore, in the houfe of lords, in refpedt to
the famous repeal of the Jerv bill j for w'hich the duke
of Newcaftle moved, and was feconded by the Bilhop,
in a fpeech which, we are told, w'as remarkably well re¬
ceived. At length his dilfinguiflied merit prevailed
over all the political obftacles to his advancement, and
placed him, without any efforts or application of his
own, in that important ftation wdiich he had ihowm him-
felf fo wHl qualified to adorn. On the death of Arch-
bifhop Hutton, he w^as promoted to the fee of Canter¬
bury, and was confirmed at Bow-church, April 21.
1758*, on rvhich occafion our authors obferve, that in
accepting this high and burdenfome flation, Dr Seeker
afted on that principle which influenced him through
life •, that he facrificed his own eafe and comfort to con-
fiderations of public utility } that the mere fecular ad¬
vantages of grandeur were objects below his ambition j
and were, as he knew and felt, but poor compenfations
for the anxiety and difficulties attending them. He had
never once through his whole life afked preferment for
himfelf, nor ffiown any unbecoming eagernefs for it} and
the ufe he made of his newly acquired dignity very
clearly {bowed, that rank, and wealth, and powTer, had
in no other light any charms for him, than as they en¬
larged the fphere of his a6tive and induftrious benevo¬
lence.
Pie fought out and encouraged men of real genius
or extenfive knowledge ; he expended 300I. in arran¬
ging and improving the manufeript library at Lambeth j
[ 108 ] SEC
The bi- and obferving with concern, that the library of printed Seeker,
books in that palace had received no additions fince the
time of Archbilhop Tennifon, he made it his bufinefs
to colleft books in all languages from mofi: parts of Eu¬
rope at a very great expence, with a view of fupplying
that chafm; wffiich he accordingly did, by leaving them
to the library at his death, and thereby rendered that
colleftion one of the nobleft and moft ufeful in the king¬
dom.
All defigns and inflitutions which tended to advance
good morals and true religion, he patronized with zeal
and generofity : he contributed largely to the mainte¬
nance of fchools for the poor j to rebuilding or repair¬
ing parfonage houfes and places of worffiip 5 and gave
no Id's than 600I. towards erefting a chapel in the pa-
riffi of Lambeth. To the fociety for promoting Chrif-
tian knowfledge he was a liberal benefa&or ; and to that
for propagating the gofpel in foreign parts, of which he
was the prefident, he paid much attention j was con-
flant at all the meetings of its members, even fometimes
when his health would but ill permit, and fuperintended
their deliberations with confummate prudence and tem¬
per.
Whenever any publications came to his knowledge
that were manifeftly calculated to corrupt good morals,
or fubvert the foundations of Chriftianity, he did his
utmoft to flop the circulation of them j yet the wretch¬
ed authors themfelves he was fo far from wilhing to treat
with any undue rigour, that he has more than once ex¬
tended his bounty to them in diftrefs. And when their
waitings could not properly be fuppreffed (as was too
often the cafe) by lawful authority, he engaged men of
abilities to anfwer them, and rewarded them for their
trouble. His attention was everyw'here. Even the
falfehoods and mifreprefentation of writers in the newf-
papers, on religious or ecclefiaftical fubjefts, he general¬
ly took care to have contradiifled j and when they feem-
ed likely to injure, in any material degree, the caufe of
virtue and religion, or the reputation of eminent and
worthy men, he would fometimes take the trouble of
anfwering them himfelf. One inftance of this kind,
which does him honour, and deferves mention, was his
defence of Bilhop Butler, wTho, in a pamphlet publiftr-
ed in 1767, w!as accufed of having died a Papift. The
conduct which he obferved towards the feveral divifions
and denominations of Chriftians in this kingdom was
fuch as {bowed his way of thinking to be truly liberal
and catholic. The dangerous fpirit of popery, indeed,
he thought {hould always be kept under proper legal
reftraints, on account of its natural oppofition not only
to the religious but the civil rights of mankind. He
therefore obferved its movements with care, and exhort¬
ed his clergy to do the fame, efpecially thofe who were
fituated in the midft of Roman Catholic families j
againft whofe influence they were charged to be upon
their guard, and wrere furniffied with proper books or
inftruftions for that purpofe. He took all fit opportu¬
nities of combating the errors of the church of Rome in
his own writings (a) > and the belt anfwers that w'ere
publiftied to fome of the late bold apologies for popery
were written a,t his inftance, and under his dire&ion.
, With
(a) See particularly his feimons &n the rebellion in J745 j on the Proteftant working fchools in Ireland j on the
jth
SEC [i
With the Diffenters his Grace was lincerely defirous
of cultivating a good underftanding. He conlidered
them, in general, as a confcientious and valuable clafs of
men. With fome of the moft eminent of them, Watts,
Doddridge, Leland, Chandler, Lardner, he maintained
an intercourfe of friendlhip or civility. By the moft
candid and confiderate part of them he was highly re¬
verenced and efteemed j and to fuch among them as
needed help he {howed no lefs kindnefs and liberality
than to thofe of his own communion.
Nor was his concern for the Proteftant caufe confined
to his own country. He was well known as the great
patron and proteftor of it in various parts of Europe ;
from whence he had frequent applications for adillance,
which never failed of being favourably received. To
feveral foreign Proteftants he allowed penfions, to others
he gave occafional relief, and to fome of their univerfi-
ties was an annual benefaftor.
In public affairs, his Grace afted the part of an honeft
citizen, and a worthy member of the Britilh legiilature.
From his firft entrance into the houfe of peers, his
parliamentary conduct wras uniformly upright and noble.
He kept equally clear from the extremes of faflious pe¬
tulance and fervile dependence j never wantonly thwart¬
ing adminiftration from motives of party zeal or private
pique, or perfonal attachment, or a paffion for popula¬
rity 5 nor yet going every length with every minifter
from views of intereft or ambition. He admired and
loved the conftitution of his country, and wifhed to
preferve it unaltered and unimpaired. So long as a due
regard to this was maintained, he thought it his duty to
fupport the meafures of government; but whenever they
were evidently inconfiftent with the public welfare, he
oppofed them with freedom and firmnefs. Yet his op-
pofition was always tempered with the utmoft fidelity,,
refpeff, and decency, to the excellent prince upon the
throne; and the moft candid allowances for the una¬
voidable errors and infirmities even of the very belt mi-
nifters, and the peculiarly difficult fituation of thofe who
govern a free and high-fpirited people. He feldom
fpoke in parliament, except where the interefts of re¬
ligion and virtue feemed to require it j but whenever
he did, he fpoke with propriety and ftrength, and was
heard with attention and deference. Though he never
attached himfelf blindly to any fet of men, yet his chief
political connexions were with the late duke of New-
caftle and Lord.Chancellor Hardwicke. To thefe he
principally owed his advancement ; and he had the good
fortune to live long enough to {how his gratitude to
them or their defcendants.
For more than ten years, during which Dr Seeker
enjoyed the fee of Canterbury, he refided conftantly at
his archiepifcopal houfe at Lambeth. A few months
before his death, the dreadful pains he felt had compelled
him to think of trying the Bath wraters : but that de-
iign was Hopped by the fatal accident which put an end
to his life.
His Grace had been for many years fubjeX to the
gout, which, in the latter part of his life, returned with
09 ] SEC
more frequency and violence, and did not go off in a
regular manner, but left the parts affeXed for a long,
time very weak, and was fucceeded by pains in different
parts of the body. About a year and a half before he
died, after a fit of the gout, he was attacked with a-
pain in the arm, near the {boulder, which having conti¬
nued about x 2 months, a fimilar pain feized the upper
and outer part of the oppofite thigh, and the arm foon
became eafier. This was much more grievous than the
former, as it quickly difabled him from walking, and
kept him in almoft continual torment, except when he
was in a reclining pofition. During this time he had
two or three fits of the gout; but neither the gout nor
the medicines alleviated thefe pains, which, with the
want of exercife, brought him into a general bad habit
of body.
On Saturday July 30. 1768, he was feized, as he
fat at dinner, with a ficknels at his ftomach. He re¬
covered before night j but the next evening, while his
phyficians were attending, and his fervants railing him
on his couch, he fuddenly cried out that his thigh-bone
was broken. The {hock was fo violent, that the fervants
perceived the couch to {hake under him, and the pain
fo acute and unexpeXed, that it overcame the firmnefs
he fo remarkably poffeffed. He lay for fome time in
great agonies j but when the furgeons arrived, and dif-
covered with certainty that the bone was broken, he
was perfeXly refigned, and never afterwards alked a
queftion about the event. A fever foon enfued. On
Tuefday he became lethargic, and continued fo till
about five o’clock on Wednefday afternoon, when he-
expired with great calmnefs, in the 75th year of his
age.
On examination, the thigh-bone was found to be ca¬
rious about four inches in length, and at nearly the
fame diftance from its head. The difeafe took its rife
from the internal part of the bone, and had fo entirely
deftroyed its fubftance, that nothing remained at the
part where it wTas broken but a portion of its outward
integument 5 and even this had many perforations, one.
of which was large enough to admit tw’o fingers, and
was filled with a fungous fubftance arifing from within
the bone. There wras no appearance of matter about
the caries, and the furrounding parts were in a found
flate. It was apparent that the torture which he un¬
derwent during the gradual corrofion of this bone muft
have been inexpreftibly great. Out of tendernefs to his
family he feldom made any complaints to them, but to
his phyficians he frequently declared his pains were fo
excruciating, that unlefs fome relief could be procured
he thought it would be impoffible for human nature to
fupport them long. Yet he bore them for upwards of
fix months with aftoniihing patience and fortitude ; fat
up generally the greater part of the day, admitted his
particular friends to fee him, mixed wuth his family at
the ufual hours, fometimes with his ufual cheerfulnefs 5
and, except fome very flight defeXs of memory, retain¬
ed all his faculties and fenfes in their full vigour till
within a few days of his death. Fie, was buried, pur-
fuant
Seeker.
5th of November ; and a great number of occafional paffages to the fame purpofe, in various parts of his leXure?;'-
fiirmonsj.and other works,..
SEC
Seeker fuant to his own directions, in a covered paffage, lead-
Se" ind ^rom a private door of the palace to the north door
 "V ' , of Lambeth church ; and he forbade any monument or
epitaph to be placed over him.
By his will he appointed the Rev. Dr Daniel Bur¬
ton, canon of Chrift-church, and Mrs Catherine Tal¬
bot, already mentioned in the courfe of thefe memoirs,
his executors ; and left 13,000!. in truft to the Drs
Porteous and Stinton, his chaplains; to pay the interelt
thereof to Mrs Talbot and her daughter during their
joint lives, or the life of the furvivor j and after the
deceafe of both thofe ladies, ii,ocol. of the laid
13,000!. are to be transferred to charitable purpofes j
amongft which are local, to the Society for the Pro¬
pagation of the Gofpel, and 1000I. to the fame fociety
for a billiop or bilhops in the king’s dominions in
America.
The following defeription is given of his perfon : He
was tall and comely j in the early part of his life llen-
der, and rather confumptive but as he advanced in
years his conftitution gained ftrength, and his lize in-
creafed, yet never to a degree of corpulency that was
difproportionate or troublelbme.
The dignity of his form correfponded with the great-
nefs of his mind, and infpired at all times refpeft and
awe ; but peculiarly fo when he was engaged in any of
the more folemn fun&ions of religion, into which he en¬
tered with fuch devout earneffnefs and warmth, with
fo juft a confcioulhefs of the place he was in, and the
bufinefs he was about, as feemed to raife him above him-
felf, and added new life and fpirit to the natural grace-
fulnefs of his appearance.
His countenance was open, ingenious, and expreflive
of every thing right. It varied eafily with his fpirits
snd his feelings, fo as to be a faithful interpreter of his
mind, which was incapable of the lead diffimulation. It
could fpeak dejeftion, and, on occafion, anger, very
Ifrongly j but when it meant to iliow pleafure or appro¬
bation, it foftened into a mod gracious Anile, and dif-
'fufed over all his features the mod benevolent and re¬
viving complacency that can be imagined.
SECOND, in Geometry, Chronology, &c. the 60th
part of a prime or minute, whether of a degree or of an
hour.
Second, in Mujic, one of the mufical intervals ; be¬
ing only the difference between any found and the next
neared found, whether above or below it.
Second Major, in Mujic. See Interval.
Second Minor, in Mujic. See INTERVAL.
SECOND Sight, in Erfe called Taifch, is a mode of
feeing fuperadded to that which nature generally be¬
llows. This gift or faculty, which is neither voluntary
nor condant, is in general rather troublefome than agree¬
able to the poffeffors of it, who are chiefly found among
the inhabitants of the Highlands of Scotland, thofe of
the Wedern ides, of the ifle of Man, and of Ireland. It
is an impredion made either by the mind upon the eye,
or by the eye upon the mind, by which things aidant or
future are perceived, and feen as if they were prefent.
A man on a journey far from home falls from his horfe;
another, who is perhaps at work about the houfe, fees
him bleeding on the ground, commonly with a landfcape
of the place where the accident befals him. Another
feer, driving home his cattle, or wandering in idlenefs, or
^nufing in the funfhine, is fuddenly furprifed by the ap-
S E C
pearance of a bridal ceremony, or funeral proccffion, and Serord.
counts the mourners or attendants, of whom, if he knows ‘—““v—■
them, he relates the names 5 if he knows them not,
he can deferibe the dreffes. Things didant are feen at
the indant they happen.
Of things future, Johnfon fays that he knows no rule
pretended to for determining the time between the fight
and the event 5 but we are informed by Mr Grofe, that
in general the time of accompliiliment bears fome relation
to the time of the day in which the impreffions are re¬
ceived. Thus vifions feen early in the morning (which
feldom happens) will be much fooner accomplidted than
thofe appearing at noon •, and thofe feen at noon will
take place in a much diorier time than thofe happening
at night 5 fometimes the accomplidiment of the lad does
not fall out within a year or more.
Thefe vifions are not confined to folemn or important
events} nor is it true, as is commonly reported, that to
the fecond fight nothing is prefented but phantoms of
evil. The future vifit of a mountebank, or piper j a
plentiful draught of filh } the arrival of common travel¬
lers ; or, if poffible, dill more triding matters than thefe,
—are forefeen by the feers. A gentleman told Dr John-
fon, that when he had once gone far from his own ifland,
one of his labouring fervants predicted his return, and
deferibed the livery of his attendant, which he had never
w'orn at home ; and which had been, without any pre¬
vious defign, occafionally given him.
As many men eminent for fcience and literature have
admitted the reality of this apparently ufelefs gift, we
(hall, without interpoung our own opinion, give the
reflections of two of the fird charafters of the age
upon it, and leave our readers to form their own
judgment. By Dr Beattie of Aberdeen it is thus ac¬
counted for.
The Highlands of Scotland are a pichirefque but a
melancholy country. Long trafls of mountainous de-
fert, covered with dark heath, and often obfeured by
midy weather ; narrow valleys, thinly inhabited, and
bounded by precipices refounding with the fall of tor¬
rents ; a foil fo rugged, and a climate fo dreary, as in
many parts to admit neither the amufements of paf-
turage nor the labours of agriculture ; the mournful
daflring of waves along the friths and lakes that inter¬
fere the country ; the portentous noifes which every
change of the wind and every increafed diminution of
the waters is apt to raife in a lonely region full of
echoes and rocks and caverns the grotefipie and
ghadly appearance of fuch a landfcape by the light of
the naoon : objefts like thefe diftufe a gloom over the
fancy, which may be compatible enough with occadon-
al and focial merriment, but cannot fail to tinrffure the
thoughts of a native in the hour of filence and folitude.
If thefe people, notwithdanding their reformation in
religion, and more frequent intercourfe with drangers,
do dill retain many of their old fuperditions, ive need
not doubt but in former times they mud have been much
more endaved to the horrors of imagination, when befet
with the bugbears of Popery and Paganifm. Mod of
their fuperditions are of a melancholy cad. That of
fecondJight, by which fome are dill fuppofed to be haunt¬
ed, is confidered by themfelves as a misfortune, on ac¬
count of the many dreadful images it is faid to obtrude
upon the fancy. It is faid that fome of the Alpine re¬
gions do likewife lay claim to a fort of fecond fight.
Nor
f 110 ]
SEC [ i
Second.
Nor is it wonderful, that perfons of a lively imagination,
immured in deep folitude, and furrounded with the ilu-
pendous fcenery of clouds, precipices, and torrents,
fhould dream (even when they think themfelves awake)
of thofe few linking ideas with which their lonely lives
are diverfiried : of corpfes, funeral proceffions, and other
fubjefts of terror 5 or of marriages, and the arrival of
Grangers, and fuch like matters of more agreeable cu-
riofity.
Let it be obferved alfo, that the ancient Highlanders
of Scotland had hardly any other way of fupporting
themfelves than by hunting, fifhing, or war ; profeffions
that are continually expoled to fatal accidents. And
hence, no doubt, additional horrors would often haunt
their folitude, and a deeper gloom overlhadow the ima¬
gination even of the hardieft native.
A fuflicient evidence can hardly be found for the re¬
ality of the fecondfight, or at leaft of what is commonly
underftood by that term. A treatife on the fubjedt was
publiihed in the year 1762, in which many tales w'ere
told of perlons whom the author believed to have been
favoured, or haunted, with thefe illuminations •, but moft
of the tales were trifling and ridiculous: and the whole
work betrayed, on the part of the compiler, fuch extreme
credulity, as could not fail to prejudice many readers a-
gainft his fyilem.
That any of thefe viflonaries are apt to be fwayed
in their declarations by finifter views, we will not fay:
but this may be faid with confidence, that none but ig¬
norant people pretend to be gifted in this way. And
in them it may be nothing more, perhaps, than (liort
fits of hidden fleep or drowfinefs, attended with lively
dreams, and arifing from fome bodily diforder, the ef-
fe<5l of idlenefs, low fpirits, cr a gloomy imagination.
For it is admitted, even by the moft credulous High¬
landers, that as knowledge and induftry are propaga¬
ted in their country, the fecond fight difappears in pro¬
portion ) and nobody ever laid claim to the faculty who
was much employed in the intercourfe of focial life (a).
Nor is it at all extraordinary, that one fhould have the
appearance of being awake, and fhculd even think one’s
felf lb, during thefe fits of doling ; that they Ihould
come on fuddenly, and while one is engaged in fome
bufinefs. The fame thing happens to perfons much
fatigued, or long kept awake, who frequently fall afleep
for a moment, or for a long fpace, while they are Hand¬
ing, or walking, or riding on horfeback. Add but a
lively dream to this llumSer, and (which is the frequent
eifeef of difeafe) take awTay the confcioufnefs of having
been alleep, and a fuperftitious man may eafily miftake
his dream for a waking vilion which, however, is foon
forgotten when no fubfequent occurrence recals it to
his memory ; but which, if it lhall be thought to re-
femble any future event, exalts the poor dreamer into a
Highland prophet. This conceit makes him more re-
clufe and more melancholy than ever 5 and fo feeds his
difeafe, and multiplies his vifions : which, if they are not
diftipated by bufinefs or fociety, may continue to haunt
ii ] SEC
him as long as he lives ; and which, in their progrefs Second,
through the neighbourhood, receive fame new tinctures
of the marvellous from every mouth that promotes their
circulation. As to the prophetical nature of this fe¬
cond fight, it cannot be admitted at all. That the
Deity Ihould work a miracle in order to give intimation
of the frivolous things that thefe tales are made up of,
the arrival of a ftranger, the nailing of a coffin, or the
colour of a fuit of clothes; and that thefe intimations
fhould be given for no end, and to thofe perfons only
who are idle and folitary, who (peak Gaelic, or who live
among mountains and deferts—is like nothing in nature
or providence that we are acquainted with; and mult
therefore, unlels it were confirmed by fatisfahtory proof
(which is not the cafe), be rejected as abfurd and incre¬
dible.
Thefe vifions, fuch as they are, may reafonably
enough be aferibed to a diftempered fancy. And that
in them, as well as in our ordinary dreams, certain ap¬
pearances Ihould, on fome rare occafions, refemble cer¬
tain events, is to be expected from the laws of chance y
and feems to have in it nothing more marvellous or fu-
pernatural, than that the parrot, who deals out his feur-
rilities at random, fhould iometimes happen to falute the
paffenger by his right appellation.
To the confidence of thefe obje£tions Dr Johnfon re¬
plies, that by preluming to determine what is fit, and
what is beneficial, they prefuppole more knowledge of
the univerial fyftem than man has attained ; and there¬
fore depend upon principles too complicated and exten-
five for our comprehenfion ; and that there can be no
fecurity in the confequence when the premifes are not
underftood ; that the fecond fight is only tvonderful be-
caufe it is rare, for, confidered in itfelt, it involves no
more difficulty than dreams, or perhaps than the regu¬
lar exercife of the cogitative faculty ; that a general opi¬
nion of communicative impulfes, or vifionary reprefenta-
tions, has prevailed in all ages and all nations •, that par¬
ticular inftances have been given with fuch evidence, as
neither Bacon nor Bayle has been able to refift ; that
fudden impreffions, which the event has verified, have
been felt by more than own or publifh them 5 that the
fecond fight of the Hebrides implies only the local fre¬
quency of a power, which is nowhere totally unknown j
and that where we are unable to decide by antecedent
reafon, we muft be content to yield to the force of tef-
timony. By pretenfion to fecond fight, no profit was
ever fought or gained. It is an involuntary affeflion,
in which neither hope nor fear are known to have any
part. Thofe who profefs to feel it do not boaft of it as
a privilege, nor are confidered by others as advanlage-
cufly dillinguilhed. They have no temptation to feign,
and their hearers have no motive to encourage the im-
poffure.
SECOND Terms, in Algebra, thofe where the unknown
quantity has a degree of power lefs than it has in the
term where it is raifed to the higheft. The art of
throwing thefe fecond terms out of an equation, that
is,
(a) This, however, is denied by Jobnfon, who affirms that the Iflanders of all degrees, whether of rank or un-
derrtanding, univerfally admit it exceot the minifters, who, according to him, rejedt it, in conf quence of a fyftem,
againft conviction. He affirms, too, that in 1773, was in the Hebrides a fscond-fighted gentleman, who com*
plained of the terrors to which he was expofed.
Secretary.
SEC [i
Secondary's, of forming a new equation where they have no place,
is one of the moft ingenious and ufeful inventions in all
,algebra.
SECONDARY, in general, fomething that a£ls as
fecond or in fubordination to another.
SECOND JR T or Secundary, an officer who a£ls as fe¬
cond or next to the chief officer. Such are the feconda-
ries of the courts of king’s bench and common pleas ;
the fecondaries of the compters, who are next the ffie-
riffs of London in each of the twro compters j two fe¬
condaries of the pipe j fecondaries to the remembran¬
cers, &c.
SECOND JR T Circles of the Ecliptic are circles of lon¬
gitude of the liars } or circles which, paffing through the
poles of the ecliptic, are at right angles to the ecliptic.
See CIRCLES of Latitude.
Secondary Qualities of Bodies. See Metaphy¬
sics, N° 153.
SECONDAT. See Montesquieu.
SECRETARIES bird, the falco ferpentarius and
fagiltarius of Linnaeus, but claffed by Latham under the
genus Vultur. See Ornithology Index.
SECRETARY, an officer who, by his mailer’s or¬
ders, writes letters, difpatches, and other inltruments,
which he renders authentic by his hgnet. Of thefe
there are feveral kinds •, as, 1. Secretaries of Rate,
who are officers that have under their management and
direttion the moft important affairs of the kingdom,
and are obliged conftantly to attend on the king : they
receive and difpatch whatever comes to their hands, ei¬
ther from the crown, the church, the army, private
grants, pardons, difpenfations, &c. as likewife petitions
to the fovereign, which, when read, are returned to
them \ all which they difpatch according to the king’s
direflion. They have authority to commit perfons for
treafon, and other offences againft the ftate, as confer-
vators of the peace at common law, or as juftices of the
peace throughout the kingdom. They are members of
the privy-council, which is feldom or never held with¬
out one of them being prefent. As to the bulinefs and
correfpondence in all parts of this kingdom, it is mana¬
ged by either of the fecretaries without any diftinftion j
but with refpe£t to foreign affairs, the bufinefs is divi¬
ded into two provinces or departments, the fouthern
and the northern, comprehending all the kingdoms and
ftates that have any intercourfe with Great Britain j
each fecretary receiving all letters and addreffes from,
and making all difpatches to, the feveral princes and
ftates comprehended in his province. Ireland and the
Plantations are under the direftion of the elder fecreta¬
ry, who has the fouthern province, which alfo compre¬
hends, France, Italy, Switzerland, Spain, Portugal, and
Turkey j tire northern province includes the Low Coun¬
tries, Germany, Denmark, Swreden, Poland, and Muf-
covy. Each of the fecretaries has an apartment in all
the royal houfes, both for their own accommodation and
their officers’’, they have alfo a table at the king’s
charge, or elfe board-w^ages. The two fecretaries for
Britain have each two under fecretaries, and one chief
clerk *, with an uncertain number of other clerks and
tranflators, all wholly depending on them. To the fe¬
cretaries of ftate belong thecuftody of that feal properly
Called the fgnet, and the direftion of two other offices,
one called thepaper-ojfce, and the pther \\\e fignet-office.
In addition to thefe, there is a fecretary for the war de-
f-
12 ] SEC
partment, whofe office muft be temporary. 2. Score- Secretary
tary of an embaffy, a perion attending an ambaffador, ||
for writing difpatches relating to the negociation. There Seftor». ^
is a great difference between the fecretaries of an em* y
baffy and the ambaffador’s fecretary j the laft being a
domeftic or menial of the ambaffador, and the firft a ler-
vant or minifter of the prince. 3. The fecretary of
war, an officer of the war-office, who has two chief
clerks under him, the laft of which is the fecretary’s
meffenger. There are alfo fecretaries in moft of the
other offices.
SECRETION, in the animal economy. See Phy¬
siology Index.
SECT, a collective term, comprehending all fuch as
follow the dodtrines and opinions of fome famous divine,
philofopher, &c.
SECTION, in general, denotes a part of a divided
thing, or the divifion itfelf. Such, particularly, are
the fubdivifions of a chapter j called alfo paragraphs
and articles : the mark of a fedtion is $.
Section, in Geometry, denotes a lide or furface of a
body or figure cut off by another ^ or the place wffiere
lines, planes, &c. cut each other.
SECTOR, in Geometry, is a part of a circle com¬
prehended between two radii and the arch : or it is a
mixed triangle, formed by twro radii and the arch of a
circle.
Sector, is alfo a mathematical inftrument, of great seftor
ufe in finding the proportion betwreen quantities of the
fame kind : as between lines and lines, furfaces and fur-
faces, &c. whence the French call it the compafs of pro¬
portion. The great advantage of the fedlor above the
common feales, &c. is, that it is made fo as to fit all ra¬
dii and all feales. By the lines of chords, fines, &c.
on the feftor, we have lines of chords, fines, &c. to any
radius betwixt the length and breadth of the fedtor when
open.
The real inventor of this valuable inftrument is un¬
known •, yet of fo much merit has the invention appear¬
ed, that it was claimed by Galileo, and difputed by na¬
tions.
The fedtor is founded on the fourth propofition of
the fixth book of Euclid j where it is demonftrated,
that fimilar triangles have their homologous fides pro¬
portional. An idea of the theory of its conftrudlion
may be conceived thus. Let the lines AB, AC (Plate Plate
CCCCLXXVIII. fig. I.) reprefent the legs of the fee- ccccIkxvu?.
tor j and AD, AE, two equal fedlions from the centre : **8’ x*
if, now the points CB and DE be connedted, the lines
CB and DE will be parallel •, therefore the triangles
ADE, ACB will be fimilar j and confequently the
fides AD, DE, AB, and BC, proportional; that is, as
AD : DE : : AB : BC : whence, if AD be the half,
third, or fourth part of AB ; DE will be a half, third,
or fourth part of CB : and the fame holds of all the 'reft.
If, therefore, AD be the chord, fine, or tangent, of any
number of degrees to the radius AB j DE will be the
fame to the radius BC. 2
Defcription of the SeBor. The inftrument connfts of deferibed.
two rules or legs, of brafs or ivory, or any other mat¬
ter, reprefenting the radii, moveable round an axis or
joint, the middle of which expreffes the centre ; whence
are drawn on the faces of the rulers feveral feales, which
mav be diftinguifhed into fingle and double.
The double feales, or lints graduated upon the faces rjg. ^ ,,
of
SEC [ i
Se&or. of the Ihftrument, and which are to be ufed as feftoral
1 n> v-~- lines? proceed from the centre j and are, I. Two fcales
of equai parts, one on each kg, marked LIN. or L. j each
of thele Icales, from the great extenfivenefs of its ule,
is called the line of lines. 2. Two lines of chords mark¬
ed ctio. or C. 3. Two lines of fee ants marked SEC.
or s. A ime ot polygons marked POL. Upon the
other face the fecloral lines are, 1. Twm lines of fines
marked SIN. or s. 2 Two lines of tangents marked
TAN. or T. 3. Between the line of tangents and lines
there is another line ot tangents to a lelfer radius, to
fupply the defect of the former, and extending hom 43°
to 730, marked t.
Each pair of thefe lines (except the line of poly¬
gons) is lo adjuited as to make equal angles at the
centre j and coni quentiy at whatever diltance the fec-
tor be opened, ihe angles will be always reflectively
equal. That is, the didance between 10 and 10 on
the line of lines, will be equal to 60 and 60 on the line
of chords, 90 and 90 on the line of lines, and 45 and
45 on the line of tangents.
Befides the fedtoral Icales, there are others on each
face, placed parallel to the outward edges, and ufed as
thofe of the common plane feale. 1. Theie are a line of
inches. 2. A line of latitudes. 3. A line of hours.
4. A line of inclination of meridians. 3. A line of
chords. Three logarithmic fcales, namely, one of num¬
bers, one of fines, and one of tangents. Thefe are ufed
when the feftor is fully opened, the legs forming one
line (a).
To read The value of the divifions on moft of the lines are de-
and elti- termined by the figures adjacent to them ; thefe pro¬
mate the ceed by tens, which conftitute the divilions of the firfl:
thV'f°<£t °n 01^er, anc^ are numbered accordingly ; but the value of
ard ike* divifions on the line of lines, that are diftinguifhed
by figures, is entirely arbitrary, and may reprefent any
value that is given to them j hence the figures, 1, 2, 3,
4, &c. may denote either 10, 20, 30, 40, or 100, 200,
300, 400, and fo on.
The line of lines is divided into ten equal parts, num¬
bered 1, 2, 3, to 10 ; thefe may be called divifons of
the firfl order ; each of thefe is again fubdivided into 10
other equal parts, which may be called divifions of ihe fc-
cond order ; each of thefe is divided into two equal parts,
forming divifions of the third order. The divifions on
all the fcales are contained between four parallel lines j
thofe of the third order extend to the moll diflant j
thofe of the third to the leaft j thofe of the fecund to
the intermediate parallel.
When the wdiole line of lines reprefents 100, the di¬
vifions of the firfl: order, or thofe to which the figures
are annexed, reprefent tens ; thofe of the fecond order
units 5 thofe of the third order the halves of thefe units.
If the whole line reprefent ten, then the divifions of the
firfl order are units } thofe of the fecond tenths j the
thirds twentieths.
In the line of tangents, the divifions to which the
numbers are affixed, are the degrees expreffed by thofe
numbers. Every filth degree is denoted by a line fome-
what longer than the reft ; between every number and
each fifth degree, there afe four divifions longer than
Vol. XIX. Part I.
3 ) SEC
the intermediate adjacent ones, thefe are whole de- Seder,
grees j the ftiorter ones, or thofe of the third order, are
30 minutes.
From the centre, to 60 degrees, the line of fines is
divided like the line of tangents, from 60 to 70 ; it is
divided only to every degree, from 70 to 80, to every
two degrees, from 80 to 90 3 the divifion muft be elli-
mated by the eye.
The divifions on the line of chords are to be eftima-
ted in the fame manner as the tangents.
The IclTer line of tangents is graduated every two
degrees, from 45 t@ 50 3 but from 50 to 60 to every
degree 3 from 60 to the end, to half degrees.
The line of fecants from o to 10 is to be eftimated
by the eye 3 from 20 to 50, it is divided to every two
degrees 3 from 30 to 60, to every degree 3 from 60 to
the end, to every half degree. ^
If of the Line of Equal Parts on the SECTOR. X. To Divifion of
divide a given line into any number of equal parts, fup-a given line
pole feven. Take the given line in your compaffes 3 t^e ^;rie
and felting one foot in a divifion of equal parts, that| ,J,CJ”U
may be divided by feven, for example 70, whofe feventh 1
part is 10, open the feflor till the other point fall ex¬
actly on 70, in the fame line on the other leg. In this
difpofition, applying one point of the compafies to 10 in
the fame line 3 ihut them till the other fall in 10 in the
tame line on the other leg, and this opening will be the
feventh part of the given line. Note, if the line to be
divided be too long to be applied to the legs of the fec-
tor, divide only one half or one fourth by feven, and
the double or quadruple thereof will be the feventh part
of the whole.
2. To meafure the lines of the perimeter of a poly- -jy, m^ea_
gon, one of which contains a given number of equal lure the ne
parts. Take the given line in your compaffes, and fet rionter of
it parallel, upon the line of equal parts, to the number a k^A011’
on each leg exprefling its length. The feftor remaining
thus, fet off the length of each of the other lines paral¬
lel to the former, and the number each of them falls on
will exprefs its length.
3. A right line being given, and the number ofsubtrac-
parts it contains, fuppofe 120, to take from it a ftiorter tion.
line, containing any number of the fame parts, fuppofe
23. Take the given line in your compaffes, open the
feiftor till the two feet fall on 1 20 on each leg 3 then
will the diflance between 23 on one leg, and the fame
number on the other, give the line required.
4. To multiply by the line of equal parts on the Multiplies-
fedlor. Take the lateral diftance from the centre of the tion.
line to the given multiplicator 3 open the fe£lor till
you fit that lateral diftance to the parallel of 1 and 1,
or 10 and 10, and ke°p the fedftor in that difpofition 3
then take in the compaffes the parallel diftance of the
multiplicand, which diftance, meafured laterally on the
fame line, will give the product required. Thus, fup¬
pofe it were required to find the produft of 8 multi¬
plied by 4 : take the lateral diftance from the centre
of the line to 4 in your compaffes, i. e. place one foot
of the compaffes in the beginning of the divifions, and
extend the other along the line to 4. Open the feflor
till you fit this lateral diftance to the parallel of 1 and
P 1, or
<1 ^ ^ <^'eren^ or^ers on different fedtors^ but they may eaffy be found by thefe general
SEC [ii
Sector, i, or io and 10. Then take the parallel alliance of 8,
the multiplicand ; i. e. extend the compaffes from 8, in
this line, on one leg, to 8 in the fame line on the other;
and that extent, raeafured laterally, will give the pro-
8 dudf required.
Divifion in 5- To divide by the line of equal parts on the fe£lor.
general. Extend the compalt'es laterally from the beginning of
the line to i, and open the feftor till you fit that extent
to the parallel of the divifor ■, then take the parallel di-
ftance of the dividend, which extent, meafured in a late¬
ral diredlion, will give the quotient required. Thus,
fuppofe it was required to divide 36 by 4 : extend the
compaffes laterally, the beginning of the line to x, and
fit to that extent the parallel of 4, the divifor j then ex¬
tend the compaffes parallel, from 36 on one leg to 36
on the other, and that extent, mealured laterally, will
9 give 9, the quotient required.
Proportion. 6. Proportion by the line of equal parts. Make the
lateral diftance of the fecond term the parallel diitance
of the firft term, the parallel diftance of the third term is
the fourth proportional. Example. To find a fourth
proportional to 8, 4, and 6, take the lateral diftance of
4, and make it the parallel diftance of 8 5 then the pa¬
rallel diftance of 6, extended from the centre, fhall reach
to the fourth proportional 3.
In the fame manner, a third proportional is found to
two numbers. Thus, to find a third proportional to
8 and 4, the fedlor remaining as in the former example,
the parallel diftance of 4, extended from the centre,
fhall reach to the third proportional 2. In all thefe
cafes, if the number to be made a parallel diftance be
too great for the fector, feme aliquot part of it is to be
taken, and tbe anfvver is to be multiplied by the number
10 by which the firft number was divided.
j.ine of life of the Line of Chords on the SECTOR. I. To open
c&ards. the fedtor fo as the two lines of chords may make an
angle or number of degrees, fuppofe 40. Take the di¬
ftance from the joint to 40, the number of the degrees
propofed, on the line of chords; open the fe^lor till the
diftance from 60 to 60, on each leg, be equal to the
given diftance of 40 •, then will the two lines on the fec¬
tor form an angle of 40 degrees, as was required.
2. The feftor being opened, to find the degrees of
its aperture. Take the extent from 60 to 60, and lay
it off on the line of chords from the centre ; the num¬
ber whereon it terminates will Ihow the degrees, &c.
required.
3. To lay off any number of degrees upon the cir¬
cumference of a circle. Open the fe&or till the di¬
ftance between 60 and 60 be equal to the radius of the
given circle *, then take the parallel extent of the chord
of the number of degrees on each leg of the feclor, and
lay it off on the circumference of the given circle.—
Hence any regular polygon may be eafily inferibed in
It a given circle.
Line of Ufe of the Line of Polygons on the SECTOR. I. To
polygons. Jnfcribe a regular polygon in a given circle. Take the
femidiameter of the given circle in the compaffes, and
adjuft it to the number 6, on the line of polygons, on
each leg of the feiffor : then, the feftor remaining thus
opened, take the diftance of the two equal numbers,
exprefling the number of fides the polygon is to have ;
f. gr. the diftance from 5 to 5 for a pentagon, from 7
to 7 for a heptagon, &c. Thefe■"diftances carried about
4 ] SEC
the circumference of the circle, will divide it into fo Sceftor.
many equal parts. v——-
2. To deferibe a regular polygon, c. gr. a penta¬
gon, on a given right line. Take the length of the
line in the compaffes, and apply it to the extent of
the number 5, 5, on the lines of polygons. The fec¬
tor thus opened, upon the fame lines take the extent
from 6 to 6 : this will be the femidiameter of the circle
the polygon is to be inferibed in. If then, with this
diftance, from the ends of the given line, you deferibe
two arches of a circle, their interfedlion will be the
centre of the circle.
3. On a right line, to deferibe an ifoceles triangle,
having the angles at the bafe double that at the ver¬
tex. Open the fedlor, till the ends of the given line
fall on 10 and 10 on each leg ; then take the diftance
from 6 to 6. This will be the length of the two equal
fides of the triangle.
U/e of the Lines of Sines, Tangents, and Secants, on sines, tan-
the SECTOR. By the feveral lines difpofed on the fee-gents’, and
tor, we have feales to feveral radii; fo that having afecants.
length or radius given, not exceeding the length of the
fe&or when opened, we find the chord, fine, &c.
thereto : e. gr. Suppofe the chord, fine, or tangent of
10 degrees, to a radius of 3 inches required ; make 3
inches the aperture between 60 and 60, on the lines of
chords of the two legs 5 then will the fame extent reach
from 45 to 45 on the line of tangents, and from 90 to
90 on the line of the fines on the other fide ; fo that to
whatever radius the line of chords is fet, to the fame are
all the others fet. In this difpofition, therefore, if the
aperture between 10 and 10, on the lines of chords, be
taken with the compaffes, it will give the chord of 10
degrees. If the aperture of 10 and 10 be in like man¬
ner taken on the lines of fines, it will be the fine of 10
degrees. Laftly, if the aperture of 10 and 10 be in
like manner taken on the lines of tangents, it gives the
tangent of 10 degrees.
If the chord, or tangent, of 70 degrees were re¬
quired ; for the chord, the aperture of half the arch,
viz. 35, muft be taken, as before ; which diftance, re¬
peated twice, gives the chord of 70 degrees. To find
the tangent of 70 degrees to the fame radius, the fmall
line of tangents muft be ufed, the other only reaching-
to 45 : making, therefore, 3 inches the aperture between
45 and 45 on the ftnall line ; the extent between 70 and
70 degrees on the fame, will be the tangent of 70 de¬
grees to 3 inches radius.
To find the fecant of an arch, make the given radius
the aperture between o and o on the lines of fecants ;
then will the aperture of 10 and 10, or 70 and 70, on
the faid lines, give tire tangent of io° or 70°.
If the converfe of any of thefe things wer e required,
that is, if the radius be required, to which a given line
is the fine, tangent, or lecant, it is but making the
given line, if a chord, the aperture on the line of chords
between 10 and 10, and then the fe&or will ftand at
the radius required ; that is, the aperture between 60
and 60 on the faid line is the radius. If the given line
were a fine, tangent, or fecant, it is but making it the
-aperture of the given number of degrees ; then will
the diftance of 90 and 90 on the fines, of 45 and 4 c on
the tangents, of o and o on the fecants, be the radius.
SECTOR of an Ellipfe, of ail Hyperbola, bs'e. is a part
refcmbUng
Settlor,
Secular.
SEC [ i
refembllng the circular fe&or, being contained by three
lines, two of which are radii, or lines drawn from the
‘ centre of the figure to the curve, and the intercepted arc
or part of that curve.
SECTOR of a sphere, is the folid generated by the re¬
volution of the fedtor of a circle about one of its radii;
the other radius deferibing the furtace of a cone, and
the circular arc a ciicul r portion of the furface of the
fphere of the fame radius. So that the ipherical fe£lor
confifts of a right cone, and of a fegment of the fphere
having the fame common bafe with the cone. Hence
the folid content of it will be found by multiplying the
bafe or fpherical furface by the radius of the fphere, and
taking one third of the product:.
Sljlronomical SECTOR. See ASTRONOMICAL Sector.
Dialing SECTOR. See Dialing.
SECULAR, that which relates to affairs of the pre-
fent world, in which fenfe the word itands oppofed to
fpiritual, ecclejiajlical: thus we fay fecular power, &c.
Skcular, is more peculiarly ured for a perfon who
lives at liberty in the world, not {hut up in a monafiery,
nor bound by vows, or fubjecled to the particular rules
of any religious community ; in which fenfe it Hands op¬
posed to regular. The Romhh clergy are divided into
fecular and regular, of which the latter are bound by
monaftic rules, the former not.
SECULAR Games, in antiquity, folemn games held
among the Romans once in an age. Thefe games laft-
ed three days and as many nights; during which time
facrifices were performed, theatrical fhewrs exhibited,
with combats, fpoits, &c. in the circus. The occafion
of thefe games, according to Valerius Maximus, was to
flop the progrefs of a plague. Valerius Publicola w^as
the firft who celebrated them at Rome in the year of
the city 245. The folemnity w'as as follows : The
whole world was invited by a herald to a feaft which
they had never feen already, nor ever finould fee again.
Some days before the games began, the quindecemviri
in the Capitol and the Palatine temple, diftributed to
the people purifying compofitions, of various kinds, as
ilambeaus, fulphur, &c. From hence the populace
paffed to Diana’s temple on the Aventine mount, with
wheat, barley, and oats, as an offering. After this,
whole nights were fpent in devotion to the Deftinies.
When the time of the games -was fully come, the people
afiembled in the Campus Martius, and facrificed to Ju¬
piter, Juno, Apollo, Latona, Diana, the Parcae, Ceres,
Pluto, and Proferpine. On the firff night of the feaft
the emperor, with the quindecemviri, caufed three altars
to be eredted on the banks ol the Tiber, which they
fprinkled with the blood of three lambs, and then pro¬
ceeded to regular facrifice. A fpace was next marked
cut for a theatre, which w^as illuminated with innumer¬
able flambeaus and fires. Here they fang hymns, and
celebrated all kinds of fports. On the day after, having
offered vidtims at the Capitol, they went to the Campus
Martius, and celebrated fports to the honour of Apollo
and Diana. Thefe lafled till next day, when the noble
matrons, at the hour appointed by the oracle, went to
the Capitol to ling hymns to Jupiter, On the third day,
which concluded the folemnity, twenty feven boys, and
as many girls, lung in the temple of Palatine Apollo
hymns and verfes in Greek and Latin, to recommend
the city to the protedfion of thofe deities whom they
defigned particularly to honour by their facrifices.
is ] SEC
The inimitable Carmen Seculare of Horace was com-
pofed for this laft day, in the Secular Games, held by
Auguftus. ^
It has been much difputed whether thefe games were
held every hundred, or every hundred and ten years.
Valerius Antius, Varro, and Livy, are quoted in fup-
port of the former opinion : In favour of the latter
may be produced the quindecemviral regitJers, the
edidls of Augufius, and the words of Horace in the
Secular poem,
Cectus unde nos decies per annos.
It was a general belief, that the girls who bore a
part in the fong fliould be looneft married ; and that
the children who did not dance and fing at the coming
of Apollo, flrould die unmarried, and at an early period
of life.
SECULAR Poem, a poem fung or rehearfed at the fe¬
cular games ; of which kind we have a very fine piece
among the works of Horace, being a fapphic ode at the
end ot his epodes.
SECULARIZATION, the aft of converting a re¬
gular perfon, place, or benefice, into a (ecular one. Al-
moit all the cathedral churches were anciently regular,
that is, the canons were to be religious ; but they have
been fince fecularized. For the lecularization of a re¬
gular church, there is required the authority of the pope,
that ol the prince, the bifhop of the place, the patron,
and even the content of the people. Religious that
want to be releafed from their vow, obtain briefs of fecu-
larization from the pope.
SEC UNDINES, in Anatomy, the feveral coats or
membranes wherein the foetus is wrapped up in the
mother’s womb ; as the chorion and amnios, with the
placenta, &c.
SECUNDUS, Joannes Nicolaius, an elegant wri¬
ter of Latin poetry, was born at the Hague in the year
1511. His defeent was from an ancient and honour¬
able family in the Netherlands ; and his father Nicolaus
Everardus, who was born in the neighbourhood of Mid-
dleburg, feems to have been high in the favour of the
emperor Charles V. as he was employed by that monarch
in leveral ftations of confiderable importance. We find
him firft a member of the grand parliament or council
of Mechelen, afterwards prefident of the ftates of Hol¬
land and Zealand at the Hague, and laftly holding a
ftmilar office at Mechelen, where he died, Auguft 5,
Thefe various employments did not occupy the whole
of Everardus’s time. Notwithftanding the multiplicity
of his bufinefs, he found leifure to cultivate letters with
great fuccefs, and even to aft as preceptor to his own
children, who were five fons and three daughters. They
all took the name of Nicolaii from their father ; but on
what account our author was called Secundus is not
known. It could not be from the order of his birth,
for he was the youngeft ion. Perhaps the name was
not given him till he became eminent; and then, ac¬
cording to the faihion of the age, it might have its
rife from fome pun, fuch as his being Poet arum nemini
Secundus. Poetry, however, was by no means the pro-
fellion which his father wiflied him to follow. He in¬
tended him for the law, and when he could no longer
direft his ftudies himfelf, placed him under the care of
P 2 Jacobus
Secular
il
Secundus,
Seeuridus.
SEC [ n
Jacobus Valeardus. This man is faid to have been every¬
way well qualified to difeharge the important trull
which was committed to him ; and he certainly gained
the affe&ion of his pupil, who, in one of his poems,
mentions the death of Valeardus with every apppearance
of unfeigned forrow. Another tutor was foon provi¬
ded } but it does not appear that Secundus devoted
much of his time to legal purfuits. Poetry and the
lifter arts of painting and iculpture had engaged his mind
at a very early period ; and the imagination, on which
ihefe have laid hold, can with difficulty fubmit to the
dry ftudy of mufty civilians. Secundus is faid to have
written verfes when but ten years old 5 and from the
vaft quantity which he left behind him, we have reafon
to conclude that fuch writing was his principal employ¬
ment. Pie found time, however, to carve figures of
all his own family, of his miftrefles, of the emperor
Charles V. of feveral eminent perfonages of thofe times,
and of many of his intimate friends ; and in the laft
edition of his works publilhed by Scriverius at I^eyden,
1631, there is a print of one of his miftrelTes with this
inferipdon round it; Vatis amatoris Julia sculpta
MANU.
Secundus having nearly attained the age of twenty-
one, and being determined, as it would feem, to comply
as far as poffible with the wifhes of his father, quitted
Mechelen, and went to P'rance, where at Bourges, a city
in the Orleanois, he ftudied the civil law under the cele¬
brated Andreas Alciatus. Alciatus was one of the moft
learned civilians of that age ; but what undoubtedly
endeared him much more to our author was his general
acquaintance with polite literature, and more particular¬
ly his tafte in poetry. Having ftudied a year under
this eminent profeffor, and taken his degrees, Secundus
returned to Mechelen, where he remained only a very
few months. In 1533 went into Spain with warm
recommendations to the count of Naffau and other per-
fons of high rank \ and foon afterwards became fecre-
tary to the cardinal archbilhop of Toledo in a depart¬
ment of bufinefs which required no other qualifications
than what he poffeffed in a very eminent degree, a faci¬
lity in writing with elegance the Latin language. It
was during his refidence with this cardinal that he wrote
his Bafia, a feries of wanton poems, of which the fifth,
feventh, and ninth car mm a of Catullus feem to have
given the hint. Secundus was not, however, a fervile
imitator of Catullus. His expreffions feem to be bor¬
rowed rather from Tibullus and Propertius j and in the
warmth of his deferiptions he furpaffes every thing that
has been written on fimilar fu! jefts by Catullus, Tibullus,
Propertius, C. Gallus, Ovid, or Horace.
In 153 5 he accompanied the emperor Charles V. to
the fiege of Tunis, but gained no laurels as a foldier.
The hardfhips which were endured at that memorable
fitge were but little fuited to the foft difpofition of a
votary of Venus and the mufes 5 and upon an enterprife
which might have furniffied ample matter for an epic
poem, it is remarkable that Secundus w’rote nothing
whicli has been deemed worthy of prefervation. Ha¬
ving returned from his martial expedition, he was fent
by the cardinal to Rome to congratulate the pope upon
the fuccei's of the emperor’s arms ; but was taken fo
ill on the road, that he was not able to complete his
journey. He was advifed to feck, without a moment’s
6 ] SEC
delay, the benefit of his native air j and that happily re- Secundus
covered him. ^ !l
Having now quitted the fervice of the archbiffiop . ^ ~ e ’
of Toledo, Secundus was employed in the fame office of
fecretary by the bilhop of Utrecht •, and fo much had
he hitherto diftinguifhed himlelf by the claffical elegance
of his compofitions, that he was (oon called upon to fill
the important poll of private Latin fecretary to the em¬
peror, who was then in Italy. This was the molt ho¬
nourable office to which our author was ever appointed j
but before he could enter upon it death put a flop to his
career of glory. Having arrived at Saint Amand in the
diftrifl of Tournay, in order to meet, upon bufinefs,
with the biffiop of Utrecht, he was on the 8th of Octo¬
ber 1536 cut off by a violent fever, in the very flower
of his age, not having quite completed his twenty-fifth
year. He was interred in the church of the Benedic¬
tines, of which his patron, the biffiop, was abbot or pro¬
abbot ; and his near relations erefted to his memory a
marble monument, with a plain Latin infeription.
The works of Secundus have gone through feveral
editions, of which the bell and moft copious is that of
Scriverius already mentioned. It confifts of Julia, Eleg.
lib. i.; Amores, Eleg. lib. ii.; AD Diversos Eleg.
lib. iii. •, Basia, ftyled by the editor incomparabihs et
divinus prorfus liber ; Epigrammata ; OdaRUM liber
unus ; Epistolarum liber unus Elegiaca ; Epistola-
Rum liber alter, heroico carmine feriptus; Funerum liber
units; SylvvE et CARMINUM fragmenta; Poemata
nonnulta fratrum; Itineraria Secundi tria, &c.;
Epistol^ totidem, foluta oratione. Of thefe works it
would be fuperfluous in us to give any charadler after
the ample teftimonies prefixed to them of Lelius Greg.
Gyraldus, the elder Scaliger, Theodore Beza, and others
equally celebrated in the republic of letters, who all
fpeak of them with rapture. A French critic, indeed,
after having affirmed that the genius of Secundus never
produced any thing which was not excellent in its kind,
adds, with too much truth, Mais fa tnufe ejl un peu trap
lafeive. For this fault our author makes the following
apology in an epigram addreffed to the grammarians j
Carmina cur fpargam cundlis lafeiva libellis,
Queritis ? Infulfos arceo grammaticos.
Fortia magnanimi canerem fi Ceefaris arma,
Fadlave Divorum religiofa virum :
Quot mifer exciperemque notas, patererque lituras ?
Quot fierem teneris fupplicium pueris ?
At nunc uda mihi diftant cum Basia carmen, j
Pruriet et verfu mentula multa meo :
Me leget innuptae juvenis placiturus arnicas,
Ft placitura nova blanda puella viro :
Ft quemeunque juvat lepidorum de grege vatum
Otia feftivis ludere deliciis.
Lufibus et laetis procul hinc abfiftite, s^vi
Grammatici, injuftas et cohibite manus.
Ne puer, ab malleis caefus lacrymanfque leporis j
Duram forte meis ossibus optet humum.
SECURIDACA, a genus of plants belonging to the
clafs diadelphia. See Botany Index.
SFCUTORFS, a fpecies of gladiators among the
Romans, whofe arms were a helmet, a fhield, and a
fword or a leaden bullet. They wrere armed in this man¬
ner, becaufe they had to contend with the retiarii, who
were
Secutores
It.
Sedition.
S E D [u
were dreffed in a fhort tunic, bore a three-pointed lance
in their left hand, and a net in their right. T he reti-
arius attempted to caft his net over the head of the fe-
cutor ; and if he fucceeded, he drew it together and flew
him with his trident: but if he miffed his aim, he im¬
mediately betook himfelf to flight till he comd find a
fecond opportunity of entangling his adverfary with his
net. He was purfued by the fecutor, who endeavoured
to difpatch him in his flight.
Secutores was alfo a name given to fuch gladiators
as took the place of thole killed in the combat, or
who engaged the conqueror. This poll was ufually
taken by lot.
SEDAN is a town in France, in the department of the
Ardennes, in E. Long. 4. 45. N. Lat. 49. 46. I his is
the capital of a principality of the fame name, filuated
on the Maefe, fix miles from Bouillon, and fifteen from
Charleviile. Its fituation on the frontiers of the territory
of Liege, Namur, and Limburg, formerly rendered it
one of the keys of the kingdom. It is extremely well
fortified, and defended by a itrong citadel. The cattle
is fituated on a rock, furrounded with large towers and
ffrong walls •, here you fee a molt beautiful magazine
of ancient arms. The governor’s palace is oppofite
the caftle. From the ramparts you have a molt agree¬
able profpedt of the Maefe and the neighbouring coun¬
try. Though the town is but final!, yet it is full of
tradefmen, as tanners, weavers, dyers, &c. the manu-
fadture of fine cloth in this city employing a great
number of hands. The principality of Sedan former¬
ly belonged to the duke of Bouillon, who was obliged
in the beginning of the laft century to refign it to the
crown.
SEDAN-CHAIR is a covered vehicle for carrying a
fingle perfon, fufpended by twTo poles, and borne by two
men, hence denominated chairmen. They were firlt
introduced in London in 1634, when Sir Sanders Dun-
comb obtained the foie privilege to ufe, let, and hire a
number of the faid covered chairs for fourteen years.
SEDGMOOR, a large and rich traft of land in
Somerfetfhire, memorable for the defeat of the duke of
Monmouth, in 1685. It lies between Somerton and
Bridgev,later.
SEDITION, among civilians, is ufed for a fa&ious
commotion of the people, or an affembly of a number
of citizens without lawful authority, tending to difturb
the peace and order of the fociety. This offence is of
different kinds : fome feditions more immediately threat¬
ening the fupreme power, and the fubverfion of the
prefent conftitution of the ftate ; others tending only
towards the redrefs of private grievances. Among the
Romans, therefore, it was varioufly punilhed, according
as its end and tendency threatened greater mifehief.
See lib. i. Cod. de Seditiojis, and Mat. do Crimin. lib. ii.
n. 5. de Lcefa Majejlate. In the punifhment, the authors
and ringleaders were juftly diffinguilhed from thofe who,
with lefs wicked intention, joined and made part of the
multitude.
The fame diffinftion holds in the law of England
and in that of Scotland. Some kinds of fedition in
England amount to high treafon, and come within the
Hat. 25 Edw. III. as levying war againft the king.
And feveral feditions are mentioned in the Scotch aiffs
of parliament as treafonable. Bayne's Crim. Law of
Scotland,$>. 33, 34* The law of Scotland makes riot-.
7 ] S E D
ous and tumultuous affemblies a fpecies of fedition.
But the law there, as well as in England, is now chiefly
regulated by the riot ad, made 1 Geo. I. only it is to be ^
obferved, that the proper officers in Scotland, to make
the proclamation thereby enaded, are fheriffs, ftewards,
and bailies of regalities, or their deputies j magiffrates
of royal boroughs, and all other inferior judges and
magiffrates j high and petty conffables, or other officers
of the peace, in any county, ftewartry, city, or town.
And in that part of the illand, the punifhment of the
offence is any thing fhort of death which the judges, in
their diferetion, may appoint.
SEDATIVES, in Medicine, a general name for
fuch medicines as weaken the powers of nature, fuch as
blood-letting, cooling falts, purgatives, &c.
SE-DEFENDENDO, in Laxv, a plea ufed for him
that is charged with the death of another, by alleging
that he was under a neceffity of doing what he did in.
his own defence : as that the other affaulted him in fuch
a manner, that if he had not done what he did, he muff
have been in hazard of his own life. See Homicide
and Murder.
SEDIMENT, the fettlement or dregs of any thing,
or that grofs heavy part of a fluid body which links to
the bottom of the veffel when at reft.
SEDLEY, Sir Charles, aa Englifh poet and wit,
the ion of Sir John Sedley of Aylesford in Rent, was
born about the year 1639. At the refforation he came
to London to join the general jubilee •, and commen¬
ced wit, courtier, poet, and gallant. He was fo much
admired, that he became a kind of oracle among the
poets j which made King Charles tell him, that Na¬
ture had given him a patent to be Apollo’s viceroy.
The productions of his pen were fome plays, and feveral
delicately tender amorous poems, in which the foftnefs
of the verfes was fo exquifite, as to be called by the
duke of Buckingham Sedlefs witchcraft. “ There
were no marks of genius or true poetry to be deferied,
(fay the authors of the Biographia Britannica); the
art wholly coniifted in raifing loofe thoughts and lewd
defires, without giving any alarm; and fo the poifon
worked gently and irrefiftibly. Our author, we. may
be fure, did not efcape the infection of his own art, or
rather was firft tainted himfelf before he fpread the in-
feftion to others.”—A very ingenious writer of the pre¬
fent day, however, fpeaks much more favourably of Sir
Charles Sedley’s writings. “ He ftudied human na¬
ture -y and was diiiinguilfied for the art of making him¬
felf agreeable, particularly to the ladies ; for the verfes
of Lord Rochefter, beginning with, Sed/ey has that pre¬
vailing gentle art, Sic. fo often quoted, allude not to his
writings, but to his perfonal addrefs." ^Longhorn’s
Effufons, &c.].—But while he thus grew in reputation
for wit and in favour with the king, he grew poor and
debauched : his effate was. impaired, and his morals were
corrupted. One of his frolics, however, being followed
by an indiSlment and a heavy fine, Sir Charles took a
more ferious turn, applied himfelf to bufinefs, and be¬
came a member of parliament, in which he was a fre¬
quent fpeaker. We find him in the jhoufe of com¬
mons in the reign of James II. whofe attempts upon
the conffitution he vigoroufly withftood ; and he was
very adlive in bringing on the revolution. This was
thought more extraordinary, as he had received favours
from James. But that prince had taken a fancy to Siv
Charles’s
Sedition
II
Sedley.
S E D [II
Sidiey Charles’s daughter (though it Teems (lie was not very
„ i],. ^ handfome), and, in coniequence of his intrigues with
her, he created Mifs Sedley countefs of Dorchefter.
This honour, To far from plealing, greatly fhocked Sir
Charles. However libertine he himfelf had been, yet
he could not bear the thoughts of his daughter’s dif-
honouv ; and with regard to her exaltation, he only
confidered it as rendering her more confpicuoully in¬
famous. He therefore conceived a hatred for the king;
and from this, as well as other motives, readily joined
to difpofl’efs him of the throne. A witty laying of
Sedley’s, on this occafion, is recorded. “ I hate in¬
gratitude, (faid Sir Charies) ; and therefore, as the
king has made my daughter a countefs, I will endeavour
to make his daughter a queen meaning the princefs
Mary, married to the prince of Orange, who difpoffelled
James of the throne at the revolution. He lived to the
beginning of Queen Anne’s reign ; and his works were
printed in two vols. 8vo. 1719.
SEDI1, or Sf.dre, the high-prieft of the fed of Ali
among the Perfians. The fedre is appointed by the
emperor of Perfia, who dually confers the dignity on
his nearetl relation. The jurifdiftion of the iedre ex¬
tends over all effects deftined for pious purpofes, over
all mofques, hofpitals, colleges, fepulchres, and mo-
nafteries. He difpofes of all ecclefiaftical employments,
and nominates all the fuperiors of religious houles. His
decifions in matters of religion are received as fo many
infallible oracles: he judges of all criminal matters in
his own houfe without appeal. His authority is ba¬
lanced by that of the mudiitehid, or firft theologue of
the empire.
SEDUCTION, is the aft of templing and drawing
afide from the right path, and comprehends every en¬
deavour to corrupt any individual of the human race.
This is the import of the word in its largeft and moll
general fenfe ; but it is commonly employed to exprefs
the add of tempting a virtuous woman to part with her
chaftity.
The feducer of female innocence praftifes the fame
llratagems of fraud to get pofTefiion of a woman’s per-
fon, that the /windier employs to get poffeffion of his
neighbour’s goods or money ; yet the law of honour,
which pretends to abhor deceit, and which impels its vo¬
taries to murder every man who prefumes, however juil-
ly, to fufpeft them of fraud, or to quelfion their vera¬
city, applauds the addvefs of a fuccefsful intrigue, though
it be well known that the feducer could not have ob¬
tained his end without fwearing to the truth of a thou-
Tand falfeheods, and calling upon God to witnefs pro-
mifes which he never meant to fulfil.
The law of honour is indeed a very capricious x'ule,
which accommodates itfelf to the pleafures and conve¬
niences of higher life ; but the law of the land, which
is enafted for the equal proteftion of high and low,
may be fuppofed to view the guilt, of feduftion with a
more impartial eye. Vet for this offence, even the laws
of this kingdom have provided no other punilhment
than a pecuniary fatisfaftion to the injured family;
which, in England, can be obtained only bv one of the
quainteft fiftions in the world, by the father’s bringing
his aftion againft the feducer for the lofs of his daugh¬
ter’s fervice during her pregnancy and nurturing. See
Paley’s Moral Pfiilofophy, Book III. Part iii. Chap. 3.
The moralift, however, who eflimates the merit or
4
3 ] S E D
demerit of aftions, not by laws of human appointment, Seduction,
but by their general conlequences as eftablhhed by the
laws of nature, muft confider the feducer as a criminal
of the deepelt guilt. In every civilized country, and in
many countries where civilization has made but imall
progrefs, the virtue of women is collefted as it were in¬
to a lingle point, which they are to guard above all
things, as that on whiqh their happineis and reputation
wholly depend. At firft fight this may appear a capri¬
cious regulation ; but a moment’s reiieftion will con¬
vince us of the contrary. In the married ftate fo much
confidence is neceflarily repofed in the fidelity of wo¬
men to the beds of their hufbands, and evils fo great
refult from the violation of that fidelity, that whatever
contributes in any degree to its prefervation, muft be
agreeable to him who, in ertablilhing the law’s of na¬
ture, intended them to be fubfervient to the real happi-
nefs of all his creatures. But nothing contributes fo
much to preferve the fidelity of wives to their hufbands,
as the impreffing upon the minds of women the higheff
veneration for the virtue of chaftity. She who, when
unmarried, has been accuftomed to grant favours to dif¬
ferent men, will not find it eafy, if indeed poltible, to
refiit afterwards the allurements of variety. It is there¬
fore a wite inftituticn, and agreeable to the will of Blim
who made us, to train up vvemen fo as that they may
look upon the lofs of their chaftity as the molt ditgrace-
ful of all crimes; as that which finks them in the order
of fociety, and robs them of all their value. In this
light, virtuous women actually look upon the lofs of
chaftity. The importance of that virtue has been fo
deeply impreffed upon their minds, and is fo clofely afr
fociated with the principle of honour, that they cannot
think but wfith abhorrence upon the very deed by which
it is loft. He therefore who by fraud and faltehood
perfuades the unfufpefting girl to deviate in one inllance
from the honour of the fex, weakens in a great degree
her moral principle; and if he reconcile her to a repe¬
tition of her crime, he deftroys that principle entirely,
as the has been taught to confider all other virtues as
inferior to that of chaftity. Hence it is that the hearts
of proftitutes are generally fteeled againft the miferies
of their fellow’-creatures ; that they lend their aid to
the feducer in his practices upon other girls'; that they
lie and fwear and fteal without compunftion ; and that
too many of them hefitale not to commit murder if it
can ferve any felfifh purpofe of their own.
The lofs of virtue, though the greateft that man or
w’oman can fuftain, is not the only injury which the fe¬
ducer brings on the girl whom he deceives. She
cannot at once reconcile herfelf to proftitution, or even
to the lofs of charafter ; and while a fer.fe of thnme re¬
mains in her mind, the mifery which fhe fuffers muff be
exquifite. She knows that fhe has forfeited what in
the female charafter is moft valued by both fexes ; and
ftie muft; be under the perpetual dread of a difeovery.
She cannot even confide in the honour of her feducer,
wTo may reveal her fecret in a fit of drunkennefs, and
thus rob her of her fame as well as of her virtue ; and
while fire is in this ftate of anxious uncertainty, the
agony of her mind muft be infupportable. That it is
To in faft, the many inftances of child murder by unmar¬
ried women of every.-rank leave us no room to doubt.
The affeftion of a mother to her new-born child is one
of the moft unequivocal and ftrongeft inftinfts in human
nature
1
S E D
[ i
Seduction, nature (fee Instinct) and nothing fliort of the ex-
tremity of diftrefs could prompt any one fo far to op-
pofe her nature as to embrue her hands in the blood of
her imploring infant.
Even this deed of horror feldom prevents a detec¬
tion of the mother’s frailty, which is indeed commonly
difcovered, though no child has been the confequence
of her intrigue. He who can feduce is bafe enough to
betray ; and no woman can part with her honour, and
retain any well-grounded hope that her amour fliall be
kept fecret. The villain to whom fire furrendered will
glory in his viftory, if it was with difficulty obtained
and if {he furrendered at difcretion, her own behaviour
will reveal her fecret. Her reputation is then irretrie¬
vably loft, and no future circumfpedtion will be of the
fmafleft avail to recover it. She will be ihunned by the
virtuous part of her own fex, and treated as a mere in-
ftrument of pleafure by the other. In fuch circum-
ftances ftie cannot expeft to be married with advantage.
She may perhaps be able to captivate the heart of a
heedlefs youth, and prevail upon him to unite his fate
to her’s before the delirium of his paffion (hall give him
time for refleftion •, ftie may be addreffed by a man who
is a flranger to her ftory, and married while he has no
fufpicion of her fecret ; or ftie may be folicited by one
of a ftation inferior to her own, who, though acquaint¬
ed with every thing that has befallen her, can barter the
delicacy of wedded love for fome pecuniary advantage 5
but from none of thefe marriages can the look for hap-
pinefs. The delirium which prompted the firft will
foon vanifh, and leave the hufband to the bitternefs of
his own reflections, which can hardly fail to produce
cruelty to the wife. Of the fecret, to which, in the
fecond cafe, the lover was a ftranger, the hufband wall
foon make a difcovery, or at leaft find room for har¬
bouring ftrong fufpicions and fufpicions of having been
deceived in a point fo delicate have hitherto been uni¬
formly the parents of mifery. In the third cafe, the
man married her merely for money, of which having
got the poffeffmn, he has no farther inducement to treat
her with refpeft. Such are fome of the confequences
of feduftion, even when the perfon feduced has the good
fortune to get afterwards a hufband ; but this is a for¬
tune which few in her circumftances can reafonably ex¬
pert. By far the greater part of thofe who have been
defrauded of their virtue by the arts of the feducer fink
deeper and deeper into guilt, till they become at laft
common profHtutes. The public is then deprived of
their fervice as wives and parents ; and inftead of con¬
tributing to the population of the ftate, and to the fum
of domeitic felicity, thefe outcafts of fociety become fe~
ducers in their turn, corrupting the morals of every
young man whofe appetites they can inflame, and of
every young woman whom they can entice to their own
pra&ices.
All this complication of evil is produced at firft by
arts, which, if employed to deprive a man of his pro¬
perty, would fubjett the offender to the execration of
his fellow fubjcfls, and to an ignominious death : but
while the forger of a bill is purfuel with relentlefs ri¬
gour by the min'ftevs of juflice, and the fwindler load¬
ed with univerfal reproach, the man who by fraud and
forgery has enticed an innocent girl to gratify his de¬
fires at the expence of her virtue, and thus introduced
her into a path which muft infallibly lead to her own
Seeds.
19 ] SEE
ruin, as well as to repeated injuries to the public *at Seduiftfon
large, is not defpifed by his own fex, and is too often
careffed even by the virtuous part of the other. Yet;
the lofs of properly may be eafily repaired j the lofs of
honour is irreparable ! It is vain to plead in alleviation
of this guilt, that women ftrould be on their guard
againft the arts of the feducer. Moft unqueftionably
they fhould ; but arts have been ufed which hardly any
degree of caution would have been fufficient to coun-
teraft. It may as well be faid that the trader fhould
be on his guard againft the arts of the forger, and ac¬
cept of no bill without previoully confulting him in
whole name it is written. Cafes, indeed, occur in
trade, in which this caution would be impoffible; but
muft be little acquainted with the workings of the
human heart, who does not know that fituations like-
wife occur in life, in which it is equally impoflible for a
girl of virtue and tendernefs to refill the arts of the man
who has completely gained her affections.
The mentioning of this circumftance leads us to con-
fider another fpecies of fedudtion, which, though not fo
highly criminal as the former, is yet far removed from
innocence ; we mean the praftice which is too prevalent
among young men of fortune of employing every art
in their power to gain the hearts of heedlefs girls whom
they refolve neither to marry nor to rob of their ho¬
nour. Should a man adhere to the latter part of this
relolution, which is more than common fortitude can
always promife for itfelf, the injury which he does to
the objeCl of his amufement is yet very great, as he raifes
hopes of the moft fanguine kind merely to difappoint
them, and diverts her affeffions perhaps for ever from
filch men as, had they been fixed on one of them,
might have rendered her completely happy, Difap-
pointments of this kind have fometimes been fatal to
the unhappy girl j and even when they have neither de¬
prived her of life, nor difordered her reafon, they have
often kept her wholly from marriage, which, whatever
it be to a man, is that from which every woman ex¬
pects her chief happinefs. We cannot therefore con¬
clude this article more properly than with warning our
female readers not to give up their hearts haftily to men
whole ftation in life is much higher than their own 5 ,
and we beg leave to Stlure every one of them, that the
man who folicits the laft favour under the moft folemn
promife of a fubfequent marriage, is a bafe feducer, who
prefers a momentary gratification of his own to her
honour and happinefs through life, and has no intention
to fulfil his promife. Or, if he fhould by any means
be compelled to fulfil it, fhe may depend upon much ill
treatment in return for her premature compliance with
his bafe defires.
SEDUM, orpine, a genus of plants belonging to
the decandria clafs, and in the natural method ranking
under the 13th order, Sucailentce. See Botany Index*
SEED, in Physiology, a fubftance prepared by na¬
ture for the reproduction and confervation of the fpecies
both in animals and plants. See Botany and Physio¬
logy.
SEEDLINGS, among gardeners, denote fuch roots
of gilliflowers, &c. as come from feed fown. Alfo
the young tender ftioots of any plants that are newly
fown.
SEEDS, PRESERVATION OF, in a ftate fit for vege¬
tation, is a matter of great and general importance, be-
caufe.
SEE [ 12
Seeds caufe, if it be poffible to accomplifh It, we fliall thus be
c, H enabled to rear many ufeful plants m one country which
' ^ ‘ are there unknown, being indigenous only in others at
a great diftance from it.
A gentleman informs us, that many years ago he ob-
ferved fome feeds which had got accidentally among rai-
hns, being fuch as are raifed in England with difficulty,
after being lent from abroad in the ulual manner. He
fowed them in pots within a framing •, and as every one
of them grew, he fent orders to his Ions, who were at
that time abroad, to pack up all kinds of feeds they
could procure, in abforbent paper, and lend fome of
them furrounded by railins, and others by brown moiit
fugar ; concluding, that the prefervation of the fori|ier
feeds had been owing to a peculiarly favourable Hate of
the moifture thus afforded them. He likewife concluded
that, as many of our common feeds, fuch as clover,
charlock, &c. would lie dormant for ages within
the earth, well preferved for vegetation whenever they
were thrown to its furface, and expofed to the influence
of the atmofphere, fo likewife might thefe foreign leeds
be equally preferved, at lead for many months, by the
kindly covering and genial moifture afforded them by
fugar or raifins. This opinion was fully verified, as not
one in twenty of them faded to vegetate, while the
fame fpecies of feeds fsnt home in common parcels along
with them, did not vegetate at all. Having examined
them prior to their being committed to the earth, he ob-
ferved that there was a prevailing drynefs in the latter,
while the former looked healthy and frelh, not being in
the frnalleft degree infefted by infedls, as was the cafe
with the others, {t has been repeatedly tried to convey
feeds clofed up in bottles, but this method has failed of
fuccefs, a larger proportion of air, as well as a proper Hate
of moifture, perhaps being necellary. It may be requi-
fite to obferve, that no difference was made in the
package of the feeds, refpe&ing their being kept in
hu&s, pods, &c. fo as to give thofe preferved in raifins
or fugar any advantage over the others, the whole being
* Tranfac- *ent equaby guarded by their natural teguments *.
tions of the SEEDY, in the brandy trade, a term ufed by the
Society of dealers to denote a fault that is found in feveral parcels
Arts, 0f french brandy, which renders them unfaleable. The
French fuppo e that thefe brandies obtain the flavour
wffiich they exprefs by this name, from weeds that grow
among the vines from whence the wine of which this
brandy is preffed was made.
SEEING, the perceiving of external objeffs by
means of the eye. For an account of the organs of fight,
and the nature of vifion, fee Anatomy and Optics
Index.
SEEKS, a religious fefl fettled at Patna, and fo cal¬
led from a word comained in one of the commandments
of their founder, which fignifies learn thou. In books
giving an account of oriental lefts and oriental cuftoms,
we find mention made both of Seeks and Seiks ; and we
are ftrongly inclined to think that the fame tribe is
meant to be denominated by both words. If fo, differ¬
ent authors write very differently of their principles and
manners. We have already related fomething of the cha¬
racter of the Seiks under the article Hindoos j but in
the Afiatic Refearches, Mr Wilkins gives a much more
amiable account of the Seeks, which we lay before our
readers with pleafure.
The Seeks are a fe£t diftinguiftied both from the
3
voL xvi.
o ] SEE
Muffulmans and the worfliippers of Brahma ; and, from
our author’s account of them, muff be an amiable peo- ””
pie. He afked leave to enter into their chapel: They
laid it was a place of worfhip, open to all men, but in¬
timated that he mult take off his (hoes. On complying
with this ceremony, he was politely conduced into the
hall, and ieated upon a carpet in the midtt of the affem-
bly. The whole building forms a fquare of about 40
feet. The hall is in the centre, divided hum four other
apartments by wooden arches, upon pillars of the fame
materials. The walls above the arches were hung with
European looking-glaffes in gilt frames, and with pic¬
tures. On the left hand, as one enters, is the chancel,
which is fumiflied with an altar covered with cloth of
gold, raifed a little above the ground in a declining po-
fition. About it were feveral flower-pots and rofe-water
bottles, and three urns to receive the donations of the
charitable. On a low defic, near the altar, flood a
great book, of folio fize, from which fome portions are
daily read in the divine fervice. When notice was
given that it was noon, the congregation arranged them-
felves upon the carpet on each fide of the hall. The
great book and defk were brought from the altar, and
placed at the oppofite extremity. An old fdver-haired
man kneeled down before the defk, with his face to¬
wards the altar, and by him fat a man writh a drum,
and two or three with cymbals. The book was now
opened, and the old man began to chant to the time of
the infhuments, and at the conck fion of every verfe
moft of the congregation joined chorus in a refponfe,
wfith countenances exhibiting great marks of joy. Their
tones were not harfh j the time was quick •, and Mr Wil¬
kins learned that the fubjeff was a hymn in pra'fe of the
unity, omniprefence, and omnipotence of the Deity.
The hymn concluded, the whole company got up and
prefented their faces, with joined hands, towards the al¬
tar in the attitude of prayer. The prayer was a fort of
litany pronounced by a young man in a loud and di-
flinft voice 3 the people joining, at certain periods, in
a general refponfe. This prayer was followed by a
fliort blefiing from the old man, and an invitation to the
affembly to partake of a friendly feaft. A fliare was
offered to Mr Wilkins, who was too polite to refufe it.
It was a kind of fweetmeat compofed of fugar and
flower mixed up with clarified butter. They were next
ferved with a few fugar plums 3 and thus ended the
feaft and ceremony.
In the courfe of converfation Mr Wilkins learned
that the founder of this fe£! was Naneek Salt, who lived
about 400 years ago j who left behind him a book,
compofed by himfelf in verfe, containing the doftrines
he had eftabliffied 3 that this book teaches, that there is
but one God, filling all fpace, and pervading all mat¬
ter 3 and that there will be a day of retribution, when
virtue will be rewarded, and vice punifhed. (Our au¬
thor forgot to afk in wffiat manner). It forbids murder,
theft, and fuch other deeds as are by the majority of
mankind efteemed crimes, and inculcates the prattice of
all the virtues; but, particularly, a univerfal philan¬
thropy and hofpitality to ftrangers and travellers. It not
only commands univerfal toleration, but forbids difputes
with thofe of another perfuafion. If any one fhow a
fincere inclination to be admitted among them, any five
or more Seeks being affembled in any place, even on
the highway, they fend to the firft (hop where fwTeet-
meats
Seek?.
S E G [I
Seeks, meals are fold, and procure a very fitnall quantity of a
Segahen, particular kind called bataja (Mr Wilkins does not tell
us of what it is compol’ed), which having diluted in
pure water, they fprinkle fome of it on the body and
eyes of the profelyte, whilft one of the bed inftrufted
repeats to him the chief canons of their faith, and ex-
a£ts from him a folemn promife to abide by them the
reit of his life. They offered to admit Mr Wilkins into
their fociety ; but he declined the honour, contenting
himfelf with their alphabet, -which they told him to
guard as the apple of his eye, as it was a facred charac¬
ter. Mr Wilkins finds it but little different from the
Dewanagari. The language itfelf is a mixture of Per-
fian, Arabic, and Shanfcrit, grafted upon the provincial
dialedl of Punjab, which is a kind of Hindowee, or, as
we commonly call it, Moors.
SEGAL1EN, a large illand feparated from the coaft
of Chinefe Tartary by a narrow channel. It is called
Tchoka by the natives, and Oku-Jeffu by the Chinefe.
It is fituated between 46° and 540 N. Lat j but its
breadth from call to weft is unknown. The frigates un¬
der the command of Peroufe came to anchor in different
bays, to the finefl of which, in 48° 59' N. Lat. and
140° 32' E. Long, from Paris, the French commodore
gave the name of Baie d’Eftaing.
Segalien is well wooded, and mountainous towards
the centre, but flat and level along the coaft, the foil of
which is peculiarly favourable to agriculture j and vege¬
tation is extremely vigorous. The whole furface is al-
moft covered with forefts of pine, birch, oak, and wil¬
low trees j and the feas, rivers, and brooks, abound with
excellent falmon and trout. In general, the weather is
mild and foggy ; and the inhabitants are healthy and
ftrong, and many of them live to an extreme old age.
The prefents received by the natives from the French,
rvere only valued in proportion to their utility. They
make ufe of looms, which are complete inftruments,
though fmall. The inhabitants in general do not exceed
five feet in height, although fome of the tailed: meafure
about five feet four inches. Their countenances are ani¬
mated and agreeable j their cheeks are large, their nofe
rounded at the extremity $ they have ftrong voices, and
rather thick lips, which are of a dull red.
The women are not fo tall as the men, but of a more
rbunded and delica*e form, with dreffes nearly fimilar j
their upper lip is tattoed all over of a blue colour; the
hair of their head is black, fmooth, and of a moderate
ftrength, worn about fix inches long behind, and they
cut it into a brufh on the top of their head and over the
temples. They wear furtouts of fkin or quilted nankeen,
which reaches to the calf of the leg, and fometimes
lower, by which the ufe of drawers is in a great mea¬
fure rendered unneceflary. They all wear girdles, like
the lower orders among the Chinefe, from which a
knife is fufpended as a defence againft the bears, and a
number of fmall pockets for holding their flint and fted,
pipe and box of tobacco, for they are very great fmok-
ers. Their huts are fmall in proportion to the number
of inhabitants they contain, but fufficient to defend them
againft the rain and other inclemencies of the atmo-
fphere. The roof confifts of two inclined planes, from
10 to 12 feet high at their union, and three or four on
the fidesj the breadth of the roof is 15, and its length
18 feet. They ufe iron pots in cooking, alfo (hells,
Vol, XIX. Part I.
21 ] S E G
veffels made of wood and birch bark, of different forms
and workmanftiip. They have two meals a-day, the
one at noon, and the other in the evening. Each fa- -
mily has its own hunting and fiftiing implements, and
their arms are bows, javelins, and a kind of fpontoon,
which laft is employed in hunting the bear.
The only domeftic animals are dogs, of a middling
fize, with lhaggy hair, pricked ears, and a long (harp
muzzle, with a loud but not favage cry.
The people of Segalien are of a mild and unfufpicious
difpofition, and appear to hold a commercial intercourfe.
with the Chinefe through the medium of the Mantchou
Tartars, with the Ruffians to the north of their ifland,
and the Japanefe to the fouth ; but the articles of trade
confift only of a few furs and whale oil.
SEGEBERG, a town of Germany, in the duchy of
Holftein, and in Wagria ; w ith a caftle (landing on a
high mountain, confiding of limeftone, large quantities
of which are carried to Hamburg and Lubeck. It be¬
longs to Denmark, and is feated on the river Treve, in
E. Long. 10. 9. N. Lat. 54. o.
SEGEDIN, a ftrong town of Lower Hungary, in
the county of Czongfad, with a caftle. 7'he Imperia-
lifts took it from the Turks in 1686. It is feated at
the confluence of the rivers Teffe and Mafroch, in E.
Long. 20. 35. N. Lat. 46. 28.
SEGMENT of a Circle, in Geometry, is that part
of the circle contained between a chord and an arch of
the fame circle.
SEGMENTS, Like of, two particular lines on
Gunter’s fe£tor. They lie between the lines of fines
and fuperficies, and are numbered, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10.
They reprefent the diameter of a circle, fo divided into
100 parts, that a right line drawn through thefe parts,
and perpendicular to the diameter, (hall cut the circle
into two fegments, the greater of which (hall have the
fame proportion to the whole circle, as the parts cut off
have to 100.
SEGNA, a city of Croatia, belonging to the houfe
of Auftria, and feated on the coaft of the gulf of Ve¬
nice. It was formerly a place of ftrength and great
importance; but it has fuffered many calamities, and
its inhabitants at prefent do not amount to jooo. In
the beginning of this century it fent 50 merchant (hips
to fea •, but the inconveniency of its fituation and badnefs
of its harbour, in which the fea is never calm, difeou-
raged navigation, and Segna has now very few (hips be-
longing to it. Among the cuftoms of the Segnans, Mr
Fortis mentions ©ne relative to the dead, which for its
fingularity may be worthy of notice.
“ All the relations and friends of the family go to FortiYs
kifs the corpfe, by -way of taking leave, before burial. Travels
Each of them uncovers the face, over which a hand-t0 Dalma‘
kerchief is fpread, more or lefs rich according to the1
family j having killed the dead perfon, every one throws
another handkerchief over the face ; all which remain
to the heirs, and fometimes there are 20, 30, and more
at this ceremony. Some throw all thefe handkerchief
into the grave with the corpfe •, and this, in former
times, was the general cuftom ; but then they were rich.
This feems to have been brought into ufe as a fubftitute
for the ancient ^4/? lachrymatoriiy E. Long. 15. 21,
N. Lat. 49. 22.
SEGNI, an ancient town of Italy, in the Campagna
S. O-
tis.
Swin¬
burne's
Travels
through
Spain.
S E G [12
of Rome, with a biiliop’s fee, and the title of duchy.
, It is faid that organs were firft invented here. It is
feated on a mountain. E. Long. 13. 15. N. Lat. 41. 50.
SEGO, the metropolis of the kingdom of Bambarra
in Africa, on the banks of the Niger, in N. Lat. 14. 4.
and W. Long. 2. 1. It confifts of four diftin6t towns,
two on the northern bank of the river, called Sego
Korro, and Sego Boo} and two on the fouthern bank,
called Sego Soo Korro, and Sego See Korro, all fur-
rounded with lofty mud walls, and the houles are con-
ftrudded of clay, leveral of them two dories high, and
even wdiite-waihed. Mofques are to be feen in every
quarter, and the llreets, though narrow, are fufficiently
broad for every ufeful purpofe, where wheel-carriages
are wholly unknown. According to Mr Park, the in¬
habitants of Sego amount to 30,000 ; and it is the con-
fiant relidence of the king of Bambarra, a confiderable
part of whofe revenue arifes from the fare given by paf-
lengers for croiTmg the river. The people, however,
are not fo holpitable as in many other African towns, as
the Moors are here very numerous, whofe bigotry ren¬
ders them the implacable enemies of every white man, if
fufpefted of being a Chriftian.
Mr Park being therefore prohibited from living in
Sego, redded for three days in an adjacent village, and
was difmiffed on the fourth, after receiving 5000 kowries
from the king, to enable him to buy provifions in the
courfe of his journey ; and although it amounted only to
20s. derling, fo very cheap were the necelfartes of life in
Bambarra, that he found it fufficient to procure provi-
fions for himfelf, and corn for his horfe, for not fewer
than 50 days.
SEGORBE, a town of Spain, in the kingdom of
Valencia, with the title of a duchy, and a bifhop’s fee.
It is feated on the fide of a hill, between the mountains,
in a foil very fertile in corn and wine, and where there
are quarries of fine marble. It was taken from the
Moors in 1245 ; and the Romans thought it worth their
while to carry fome of the matble to Rome. W. Long.
O. 3. N. Lat. 39. 48.
SEGOVIA, an ancient city of Spain, of great powTer
in the time of the Csefars, is built upon two hills near
the banks of the Arayda in Old Caftile. W. Long. 3.
48. N. Lat. 41. o. It is Rill a bilhop’s fee, and is di-
ftinguiilied for fome venerable remains of antiquity. In
the year 1525 the city contained 5000 families, but
now- they do not furpafs 2000, a fcanty population for
25 pariflies; yet, befide 21 churches and a cathedral,
there are 21 convents.
The firR objeft in Segovia that attrafls the eye is
the aquedutt, which the lingular fituation of the city
renders neceffary. As it is built upon two hills, and
the valley by which they are feparated, and extends
confidcrably in every diredlion, it was difficult for a
part of the citizens to be fupplied with water. The
difficulty was removed, according to the opinion of the
learned, in the reign of Trajan, by this aqueduft, which
is one of the moR aRonifliing and the bed preferved of
the Roman works. In the opinion of Mr Swinburne,
who furveyed it in 1776, and who feems to have given
a very accurate account of the curiofities of Segovia, it
is fuperior in elegance of proportion to the Pont du
Card at Nifmes. It is fo perfedlly well preferved, that
it does not feem leaky in any part. From the firR low
arches to the refervoir in the town, its length is 2400
2 ] S E G
SpaniRi feet; its greatefl height (in the Plaza del Azo- Segovia.
btjo at the foot of the rvalls) is 104 ; it is there compo-' —’’
led of a double row of arches, built of large fquare Rones
without mortar, and over them a hollow wall of coarfer
materials for the channel of the water, covered with
large oblong flags. Of the lower range of arcades,
which are 15 feet wide by 65 high, there are 42. The
upper arches are 119 in number, their height 27 Spanilh
feet, their breadth feventeen, the tranfverfal thicknefs,
or depth of the piers, eight feet.
The cathedral is a mixture of the Gothic and Moor-Travels in
iffi architecture. The infide is very fpacious and of ma- sP“inby
jeflic flmplicity. The windows are well difpofed, and
the great altar has been lately decorated with the fineft^^'*
Grenadan marble. But it is to be regretted, that iri
this cathedral, as well as in moR others of Spain, the
choir is placed in the middle of the nave. The church
is nearly upon the model of the great church of Sala¬
manca, but it is not fo highly fmiihed.
The alcazar, or ancient palace of the Moors, Rands
in one of the finefl pofitibns poflible, on a rock rifing
above the open country. A fine river wadies the foot of
the precipice, and the city lies admirably well on each
fide on the brow of the hill; the declivity is woody,,
and the banks charmingly rural; the fnovvy mountains
and dark forefis of Saint Ildefonzo compofe an awful
back-ground to the picture. Towards the town there is
a large court before the great outward tower, which, as
the prifon of Gil Bias, is fo well deferibed by Le Sage,
that the fabjedt requires no farther explanation. The
refl of the buildings form an antique palace, which has
feldom been inhabited by any but prifoners fince the
reign of Ferdinand and Ifabella, who were much at¬
tached to this fituation. There are fome magnificent
halls in it, with much gilding in the ceilings, in a femi-
barbarous tafle. All the kings of Spain are feated in
Rate along the cornice of the great faloon ; but it is
doubtful whether they are like the princes whofe names
they bear ; if that refemblance, however, be wanting,
they have no other merit to claim. The royal apart¬
ments are now occupied by a college of young gentle¬
men cadets, educated at the king’s expence in all the
faiences requifite for forming an engineer. The grand-
mafler of the ordnance refides at Segovia, winch is the
head eflabliffiment of the Spaniffi artillery.
The mint is below the alcazar, a large building, the
mofl ancient place of coinage in the kingdom. The
machines for melting, Ramping, and milling the coin,
are worked by water: but there is reafon to believe
that Seville has at prefent more bufinefs, as being nearer
the fource of riches, the port of Cadiz, where the ingots
of America are landed.
The unevennefs of the crown of the hill gives a wild
look to this city. MoR of the flreets are crooked and
dirty, the houfes wooden and very wretched ; nor do
the inhabitants appear much the richer for their cloth
manufactory. Indeed, it is not in a very flourifliing
condition, but what cloth they make is very fine.
The country about Segovia has the reputation of be-
ing the befl for rearing the kind of flieep that produces
the beautiful Spanilh wool *, but as thofe Rocks wander
over many other parts of the kingdom, Segovia feems to
have no exclulive title to this reputation. Segovia (fays
Mr Townfend, whofe valuable travels will be read with
much pleafure) was once famous for its cloth made on
the
S E J [ 1
Segovia the king’s account; but other nations have fince become
. SI rivals in this branch, and the manufacture in this city
, Stjanus. jias gradually declining. When the king gave it
Townfcnd,s'a'? to a Private company, he left about 3000I. in trade j
Journey but now he is no longer a partner in the bufinefs. In
through the year 1612 were made here 25,500 pieces of cloth,
sI’uin‘ which confumed 44,625 quintals of wool, employed
34,189 perfons j but at prelent they make only about
4000 pieces. The principal imperfeCtions of this cloth
are, that the thread is not even, and that much greafe
remains in it when it is delivered to the dyer j in confe-
quence of which the colour is apt to fail. Yet, inde¬
pendently of imperfeCtions, fo many are the difadvanta-
ges under which the manufafture labours, that foreign¬
ers can afford to pay 3I. for the aroba of fine wool, for
which the Spaniard gives no more than 20s. and after
all his charges can command the market even in the
ports of Spain.
Segovia, New, a town of North America, in New
Spain, and in the audience of Guatimala 5 feated on the
river Yare, on the confines of the province of Honduras.
W. Long. 84. 30. N. Lat. 13. 25.
Segovia, a town of America, in Terra Firma, and
in the province of Venezuela, feated on a river, near a
very high mountain, where there are mines of gold. W.
Long. 65. 30. N. Lat. 8. 20.
Segovia, a town of Alia, in the ifland of Manila,
and one of the largeft of the Philippines, feated at the
north end of the iiland, 240 miles north of Manila,
and fubjeCt to Spain. E. Long. 120. 59. N. Lat. 18.
36*
SEGREAN F, is the herald’s word for a griffin when
drawn in a leaping pofture, and difplaying his wings as if
ready to fly.
SEGUE, in the Italian mufic, is often found before
aria, alleluja, amen, &c. to fliow that thofe portions or
parts are to be fung immediately after the laft note of
that part over which it is writ ; but if thefe wrords Ji
placet, or ad libitum, are joined therewith, it fignifres,
that thefe portions may be fung or not at pleafnre.
SEGUIERIA, a genus of plants belonging to the
clafs polyandria. See Botany Index.
SEJANT, a term ufed in heraldry, when a lion, or
other beaft, is drawn in an efcutcheon fitting like a cat
with his fore-feet Rraight.
SEJANUS, ALlius, a native of Vulfinum in Tuf-
cany, who ditfinguilhed himfelf in the court of Tiberi¬
us. His father’s name was Seius Strabo •, a Roman
knight, commander of the pretorian guards. His mo¬
ther wras defeended from the Junian family. Sejanus
Srft gained the favour of Caius Ceefar, the grandfon of.
Auguflus, but afterwards he attached himfelf to the in-
tereft and the views of Tiberius, who then fat on the
imperial throne. The emperor, vffio was naturally of
a fufpieious temper, was free and open with Sejanus,
and while he diftrufted others, he communicated his
•Lempri- greateft fecrets to this fawming favourite. Sejanus im-
tre's Lie- proved this confidence 5 and when he had found that he
iionary. poffeffed the efieem of Tiberius, he next endeavoured
to become the favourite of the foldiers, and the darling
of the fenate. As commander of the pretorian guards
he was the fecond man in Rome, and in that important
office he made ufe of infinuations and every mean arti¬
fice to make himfelf beloved and revered. His affability
and condcnfcenfion gained him the hearts of the common
2.5 ] S E J
foldiers, and, by appointing his owm favourites and ad- S-jinu?.
herents to places of trull and honour, all the officers and/'”—"v'""”'
centurions of the army became devoted to his intereft.
The views of Sejanus in this -were well known ; yet, to
advance with more fuccefs, he attempted to gain the af¬
fection of the fenators. In this he met with no oppo-
fition. A man who has the difpofal of places of ho¬
nour and dignity, and wffio has the command of the pub¬
lic money, cannot but be the favourite of thofe who are
in need of his affiitance. It is even faid, that Sejanus
gained to his views all the wives of the fenators, by a
private and molt facred promife of marriage to each of
them, whenever he had made himfelf independent and
fovereign of Rome. Yet, however fuccefsful wdth the
belt and nobletl families in the empire, Sejanus had to
combat numbers in the houfe of the emperor; but thefe
Teeming oblfacles wYere loon removed. All the children
and grandchildren of Tiberius were facrificed to the
ambition of the favourite under various pretences 5 and
Drufus the fon of the emperor, by ftriking Sejanus,
made his dellruflion fure and inevitable. Livia, the
wife of Drufus, w'as gained by Sejanus; and, though
the mother of many children, fire wras prevailed upon to
affill her adulterer in the murder of her hulband, and
file confented to marry him wffien Drufus was dead. No
fooner was Drufus poifoned, than Sejanus openly decla¬
red his wiih to marry Livia. This was ftrongly oppo-
fed by Tiberius; and the emperor, by recommending
Germanicus to the fenators for his fucceffor, rendered
Sejanus bold and determined. He was more urgent in
his demands; and, when he could not gain the confent
of the emperor, he perfuaded him to retire to folitude
from the noife of Rome and the troubles of the govern¬
ment. Tiberius, naturally fond of eafe and luxury, yield¬
ed to his reprefentatioiw, and retired to Campania, leav¬
ing Sejanus at the head of the empire. This was highly
gratifying to the favourite, but he was not without a ma¬
iler. Prudence and moderation might have made him
what he wiffied to bej but having offended the emperor
beyond forgivenefs, he refolved to retrieve his lofs, and
by one vigorous effort to decide the fate of the empire.
He called together his friends and followers; he paid
court to fuch as feemed diffaffedted; he held forth re¬
wards and promifes; and, having increafed the number
of his partifans, formed a bold conspiracy, refolved by any
means to feize the fovereign power.
A powerful league was formed with affoniihing rapi¬
dity, and great numbers of all deferiptions, fenators as
well as military men, entered into the plot. Among Murphy'*
thefe, Satrius Secundus was the confidential friend and
prime agent of the minifter. Whatever was this man’s J° ^
motive, whether fear, or views of intereft, or ingratitude
(for no principle of honour can be imputed to him), he
refolved to betray the fecret to Tiberius. For this pur-
pofe he addreffed himfelf to Antonia, the daughter of
Anthony the triumvir, the widow of Drufus, and the
mother of Germanicus. When this illuftrious woman,
who was honoured by the court and revered by the
people, heard the particulars, lire fent difpatches to the
emperor by one of her flaves. Tiberius was aftonifhed,
but not difmayed. The danger preffed ; his habitual
ffownefs was out of feafon ; the time called for vigour
and decifive meafures. He fent Macro to Rome, with
a fpecial commiffion to take upon him the command of
the prastorian guards. He added full inftru&ions for
Q, 2 his
s E J [ 124 ] S E I
his conduct in ail emergencies. Early in the morning
on the 15th, before the kalends of November, a report
>vas fpread, that letters had arrived at Hume, in which
the emperor fignffied his intentions to affociate Sejanus
with hjmfelf in the tribunitian power. The fenate was
fammoned to meet in the temple of Apollo, near the
imperial palace. Sejanus attended without delay. A
party of the praetorians followed him. Macro met
him in the veftibule of the temple. He approached
the minifter with all demonftrations of profound re-
fpeft, and taking him afide, “ Be not furprifed (he faid)
that you have no letter from the prince : it is his plea-
lure to declare you his colleague in the tribunitian
power; but he thinks that a matter of fo much impor¬
tance thovH be communicated to the fathers by the voice
ot the confuls. I am going to deliver the emperor’s
orders.” Sejanus, elated with joy, and fluflied with his
new dignity, entered the fenate-houfe 5 Macro followed
him. As foon as the confuls arrived, he delivered the
letter from Tiberius, and immediately went forth to
the prretorian guards. He informed them, that by or¬
der of the prince, a large donative was to be diftributed
among the foldiers. He added, that, by a new com-
miflion, he himfelf was appointed their commanding
officer; and, if they followed him to the camp, they
would there receive the promifed bounty. The lure was
not thrown out in vain : the praetorian guards quitted
their ifation. Laco, who flood near at hand, immedi¬
ately furrounded the fenate-houfe with a body of the
city cohorts.
The letter to the confuls was confufed, obfeure, and
tedious, only glancing at Sejanus, till at laft the lan¬
guage of inveftive left no room for doubt. Sejanus
kept his feat like a man benumbed, fenfelefs and ftupid
with afloniffiment. His friends, who a little before
congratulated him on his new dignity, deferted him on
every fide. He was commanded by the conful to rife
and follow him, and being loaded with irons, was con¬
duced to prifon. His downfal filled the city with ex¬
ultation. The populace, who worffiipped him in the
hour of profperity, rejoiced to fee the fad cataftrophe
to which he was now reduced. They followed in crowds,
rending the air with {bouts, and pouring forth a torrent
of abufe and fcurrilous language. The prifoner endea¬
voured to hide his face ; but the mob delighted to fee
remorfe and ihame and guilt and horror in every fea¬
ture of his diflra&ed countenance. They reviled him
for his a£ts of cruelty; they laughed at his wild ambi¬
tion ; they tore down his images, and dallied his flatues
to pieces. He was doomed by Tiberius to fuffer death
on that very day ; but, as he had a powerful faftion in
the fenate, it wa$ not thought advifeable, for the mere
tormality of a regular condemnation, to hazard a de¬
viate. Private orders were given to Macro to difpatch
him without delay ; but the conful, feeing the difpofi-
tions of the people, and the calm neutrality of the prse-
torian guards, judged it beft to re-affemble the fathers.
They met in the temple of Concord. With one voice
S^anus was condemned to die, and the fentence was
executed without delay. He was ftrangled in the pri-
fjn. His body was dragged to the Gemonite, and, af¬
ter every fpecies of infult from the populace, at the end
o? three days was thrown into the Tiber. Such was
the tragic end of that ambitious favourite. He fell a
terrible example to all, who, in any age or country, may
hereafter endeavour by their vices to rife above their fel- Seignior
low-citizens. j|
SEIGNIOR, is, in its general fignification, the fame ,
with lord, but is particularly ufed for the lord of the fee
as of a manor, as feigneur among the feudifts is he who
grants a fee or benefit out of the land to another ; and
the reafon is, becaufe having granted away the ufe and
profit of the land, the property or dominion he flill re¬
tains in himfelf.
SEIGNIORAGE, is a royalty or prerogative of the
king, whereby he claims an allowance of gold and filver
brought in the mafs to be exchanged for coin. As feig-
niorage, put of every pound weight of gold, the king
had ror his coin 5s. of which he paid to the mafter of
the mint fometimes is. and fometimes is. 6d. Upon
every pound weight of filver, the feigntorage anfwered
to the king in the time of Edwrard III. was 18 penny¬
weights, which then amounted to about is. out of which
he fometimes paid 8d. at others pd. to the mafter. In
the reign of King Henry V. the king’s feigniorage of
every pound of ftlver was I5d. &c.
SEIGNIORY, is borrow'ed from the French feig*
neune, i. e. dominatus, itnperium, principatus ; andfigni-
fies with us a manor or lordlhip, feignionj de fokemans.
Seigniory in grofs, feems to be the title of him who is not
lord by means of any manor, but immediately in his own
perfon; as tenure in capite, whereby one holds of the
king, as of his crown, is feigniory in profs.
SEIKS. See Hindostan.
SEISIN, in Law, fignifies poffeffion. In this fenfe
we fay, premierfei/in, for the firft poffefixon, &c.
Seifin is divided into that in deed or in faEl, and that
in law. A feifin in deed is where a poffeflion is aflually
taken : but a feifin in law is, where lands defeend, and
the party has not entered thereon ; or, in other words,
it is where a perfon has a right to lands, &c. and is by
wrong difleifed of them, A feifin in law is held to be
fufficient to avow on ; though to the bringing of an af-
fize, aftual feifin is required ; and where feifin is alleged,
the perfon pleading it muft ftiow of what eftate he is
feifed, &c.
Seifin of a fuperior fervice is deemed to be a feifin of
all fuperior and cafual fervices that are incident thereto;
and feifin of a leffee for years, is fufficient for him in
reverfion.
Livery of SEISIN, in Law, an eflential ceremony in
the conveyance of landed property; being no other
than the pure feodal inveftiture, or delivery of corpo¬
ral poffeflion of the land or tenement. This was held
abfolutely neceffary to complete the donation ; Nam
feud am fine invefiitura nullo nwdo confiitui potuit: and
an eftate was then only perfeft when, as Fleta expreffes
it in our law', fit juris et feifince conjunclio. See Feof-
MENT.
Inveflituves, in their original rife, were probably in¬
tended to demonftrate in conquered countries the adlual
poffeflion of the lord; and that he did not grant a bare
litigious right, which the foldier was ill qualified to pro-
fecute, but a peaceable and firm poffeflion. And, at a
time when writing was feldom prattifed, a mere oral gift,
at a diftance from the fpot that was given, was not like¬
ly to be either long or accurately retained in the memo¬
ry of byftanders, who were very little interefted in the
grant. Afterwards they were retained as a public and
notorious aO, that the country might take notice of and
teftiCy
SET [ 125 3 S E I
■fin. teftify the transfer of the eftate *, and that fuch as claimed
title by other means might know againft whom to bring
their actions. _ .
In all well governed nations, fome notonety of this
kind has been ever held requifite, in order to acquire
and afcertain the property of lands. In the Roman
law,plenum dominium was not faid to iubfift unleis where
a man had both the right and the corporal pqjfeffion ;
which pofTefTion could not be acquired without both an
aftual intention to poffels, and an aftual leihn or entry
into the premiffes, or part of them in the name or the
whole. And even in ecclefiaftical promotions, where
the freehold paffes to the perfon promoted, corporal
poffeflion is required at this day to veil the property
completely in the new proprietor j who, according to
the diftinftion of the canonilts, acquires thejw ad rem,
or inchoate and imperfedt right, by nomination and in-
llitution ; but not the jus in re, or complete and full
right, unlefs by corporal poffeffion. i herefore in dig¬
nities poffeffion is given by inltalment \ in re£lories and
vicarages by indudlion j without which no temporal
rights accrue to the minifter, though every ecclefiatlical
power is veiled in him by inftitution. So alio even in
defcents of lands, by our law, which are call on the heir
by a£t of the law itfelf, the heir has not pieman domim-
tan, or full and complete ownerlhip, till he has made an
a&ual corporal entry into the lands : for if he dies before
entry made, his heir lhall not be entitled to take the pof-
ielbon, but the heir of the perfon who was lalt adlually
feifed. It is not therefore only a mere right to enter, but
the aftual entry, that makes a man complete owner; fo
as to tranfmit the inheritance to his own heirs: non jus,
fed feijina, facit jlipitem.
Yet the corporal tradition of lands being fometimes
inconvenient, a fymbolical delivery of pofl'ellion was in
many cafes anciently allowed •, by transferring fome-
thing near at hand, in the prefence of credible wit-
neflfes, which by agreement Ihould ferve to reprefent
the very thing deligned to be conveyed j and an occu¬
pancy of this fign or lymbol was permitted as equiva¬
lent to occupancy of the land itfelf. Among the Jewrs
we find the evidence of a purchafe thus defined in the
book of Ruth : “ Now this was the manner in former
time in Ifrael, concerning redeeming and concerning
changing, for to confirm all things : a man plucked off
his Ihoe, and gave it to his neighbour ; and this was a
tellimony in Ifrael.” Among the ancient Goths and
Swedes, contra&s for the fale of lands were made in
the prefence of witneffes, who extended the cloak of
the buyer, while the feller call a clod of the land into
it, in order to give pofieffion; and a ftaft' or wand was
alfo delivered from the vender to the vendee, which
palled through the hands of the witneiTes. With our
Saxon anceftors the delivery of a turf was a neceiTary.
folemnity to eftablith the conveyance of lands. And,
to this day, the conveyance of our copyhold eflates is
ufually made from the feller to the lord or his Reward-
by delivery of a rod or verge, and then from the lord to
the purchafer by re-delivery of the fame in the prefence
of a jury of tenants.
Conveyances in writing were the lad and mofl re¬
fined improvement. The mere delivery of poffeffion,
either aftual or fymbolical, depending on the ocular
teftimony and remembrance of the witneffes, was liable
to. be forgotten or mifreprefented, and became frequent¬
ly incapable of proof. Befides, the new occafions and' Seiftn-.
neceffities introduced by the advancement of commerce,
required means to be devifed of charging and incumber¬
ing ellates, and of making them liable to a multitude of
conditions and minute deiignations, for the purpofes of
raifing money, without an abfolute fale of the land 5
and lometimes the like proceedings wrere found ufeful
in order to make a decent and competent provifion for
the numerous branches of a family, and for other dc-
mefxic views. None of which could be effe&ed by a
mere, fimple, corporal transfer of the foil from one man
to another, which was principally calculated for convey¬
ing an abfolute unlimited dominion. Written deeds
were therefore introduced, in order to fpecify and per¬
petuate the peculiar purpofes of the party who convey¬
ed : yet (till, for a very long feries of years, they were
never made ufe of, but in company with the more an¬
cient and notorious method of transfer by delivery of
corporal poffeffion.
Livery of feifin, by the common law, is neceffary to
be made upon every grant of an eftate of freehold in he¬
reditaments corporeal, whether of inheritance or for life
only. In hereditaments incorporeal it is impoffxble to be
made •, for they are not the objedt of the fenfes : and in
leafes for years, or other chattel interefts, it is not necef¬
fary. In leafes for years indeed an adtual entry is necef¬
fary, to veil the eftate in the leffee : for a bare leafe gives-
him only a right to enter, which is called his intereft in
the term, or intereffe termini: and when he enters in pur-
fuance of that right, he is then, and not before, in poffef¬
fion of his term, and complete tenant for years. This
entry by the tenant himfelf ferves the purpofe of notorie¬
ty, as well as livery of feifin from the granter could have
done ; which, it wrould have been improper to have gi¬
ven in this cafe, becaufe that folemnity is appropriated
to the conveyance of a freehold. And this is one reafon
why freeholds cannot be made to commence in f/turo,
becaufe they cannot (at the common law) be made but
by livery of feifin ; which livery, being an adlual ma¬
nual tradition of the land, muft take effedl in preefenti, or
not at all.
Livery of feifin is either in deed or in law.
Livery in deed is thus performed. The feoffor, leffor,
or his attorney, together with the feoffee,.leflee, or his
attorney, (for this may as effedlually be done by de¬
puty or attorney as by the principals themfelves in per¬
fon), come to the land or to the houfe; and there, in
the prefence of wutneffes, declare the contents of the
feoftment or leafe on which livery is to be made. And
then the feoffor,, if it be of land, doth deliver to thai
feoffee, all other perfons being out of the ground, a clod
or turf, or a twig or bough there growing, with words
to this effedt : “ I deliver thefe to you in the name of
feifin of all the lands and tenements contained in this,
deed.” But, if it be of a houfe, the feoffor muft take
the ring or latch of the door, the houfe being quite
empty, and deliver it to the feoffee in the fame form
and then the feoffee muft enter alone, and flint the door, „
and then open it, and let in the others^ If the convey¬
ance or feoffment be of divers lands, lying .fcattered in.
one and the fame county, then in the feoffor’s poffeffion,:
livery of feifin of any parcel, in the name of the reft,
fufficeth for all; but if they be in feverai counties, there
muft be as many liveries as there are counties. For, if
the title to thefe lands comes, to be difpuled, there.:
malt
s E L r 126 '1 S E L
muft be as many trials as there are counties, and the
jury of one county are no judges of the notoriety of a
facf in another. Befides, anciently, this feifm was ob¬
liged to be delivered coram paribus dc vicincto, before
the peers or freeholders of the neighbourhood, who
attefted fuch delivery in the body or on Hhe back of
the deed ; according to the rule of the feodal law,
Pares debent mtereffe inveJHturce feudi, et non alii:
for which this reafon is exprefsly given ; becaufe the
peers or vaffals of the lord, being bound by their oath
of fealty, will take care that no fraud be committed
to his prejudice, which flrangers might be apt to con¬
nive at. And though afterwards the ocular atteifa-
tion of the pares was held unneceffary, and livery
might be made before any credible witneffes, yet the
trial, in cafe it was difputed, (like that of all other at-
teftations), was ftill referved to the pares or jury of
the county. Alfo, if the lands be out on leafe, though
all lie in the fame county, there muft be as many li¬
veries as there are tenants : becaufe no livery can be
made in this cafe, but by the confent of the particular
tenant ; and the confent of one will not bind the reft.
And in all thefe cafes it is prudent, and ufual, to en-
dorfe the livery of feifin on the back of the deed, fpeci-
fying the manner, place, and time of making it j together
with the names of the witneffes. And thus much for
livery in deed.
Livery in law is where the fame is not made on the
land, but in Jight of it only •, the feoffor faying to the
feoffee, “ I give you yonder land, enter and take pof-
reflion.” Here, if the feoffee enters during the life of
the feoffor, it is a good livery, but not otherwife ; unlefs
he dares not enter through fear of his life or bodily
harm ; and then his continual claim, made yearly in due
form of law, as near as poffible to the lands, will fuffice
without an entry. This livery in law cannot, however,
be given or received by attorney, but only by the parties
themfelves.
SEIZE, in the fea-language, is to make faft or bind,
particularly to faften two ropes together with rope-yarn.
The feizing of a boat is a rope tied to a ring or little
chain in the fore-fhip of the boat, by which means it is
faftened to the fide of the fhip.
SEIZURE, in commerce, an arreft of fome mer-
chandife, moveable, or other matter, either in con-
lequence of fome law or of fome exprefs order of
the fovereign. Contraband goods, thofe fraudulently
entered, or landed without entering at all, or at
wrong places, are fubieft to feizure. In feizures among
us, one half goes to the informer, and the other half to
the king.
SELAGO, a genus of plants belonging to the di:!y-
namia clafs •, and in the natural method ranking under
the 48th order, A^gregatee. See Botany Index.
SELDEN, John, called by Grotius the glory of
England, was born at Salvington in Suffex in 1 ^84.
He was educated at the free fchool at Chichefter ;
whence he was fent to Hart Hall in the univerfity of
Oxford, -where he ftaid four years. In 1612, he enter¬
ed himfelf in Clifford’s Inn, in order to ftudy the law ;
and about two years after removed to the Inner Tem¬
ple, where he foon acquired great reputation by his
learning. He had already publilhed feveral cf his works;
and this year wrote verfes in Latin, Greek, and Eng-
J.iih, upon Mr William Browne’s Britannia’s Paftorals.
3
In 1614, he publithed his Titles of Honour j and in Se
1616, his Notes on Sir John Fortefcue’s book De Lau- '~~
dibus Legum Anglice. In 1618, he publiffied his Hiftory
of Tythes j which gave great offence to the clergy, and
was animadverted upon by feveral writers ; and for that
book he was called before the high commiftion court,
and obliged to make a public acknowledgment of his
forrow for having publilhed it. In 1621, being fent for
by the parliament, though he was not then a member
of that houfe, and giving his opinion very ftrongly in
favour of their privileges in oppofition to the court, he
was committed to the cuftody of the fheriff of Lon¬
don, but w7as fet at liberty after five weeks confinement.
In 1623, he was chofen burgefs for Lancafter j but,
amidft all the divifions of the nation, kept himfelf neu¬
ter, profecuting his ftudies with fuch application,
that though he was the next year chofen reader of
Lyon’s Inn, he refufed to perform that office. In 1625,
he was chofen burgefs for Great Bedwin in Wiltlhire,
to ferve in the firft parliament of King Charles I. in
which he declared himfelf warmly againft the duke of
Buckingham •, and on his Grace’s being impeached by
the Houfe of Commons, -was appointed one of the ma¬
nagers of the articles againft him. In 1627 and J628,
he oppofed the court party with great vigour. The
parliament being prorogued to January 20. 1629, Mr
Selden retired to the earl of Kent’s houfe at Wreft, in
Bedfordfliire, where he finilhed his Marmora Arunde-
liana. The parliament being met, he, among others,
again diftinguilhed himfelf by his zeal againft the court j
when the king diffolving the parliament, ordered feveral
of the members to be brought before the King’s Bench
bar, and committed to the Tower. Among thefe was
Mr Selden, who infilling on the benefit of the laws, and
refufing to make his fubmiffion, was removed to the
King’s Bench prifcn. Being here in danger of his life
on account of the plague then raging in Southwark, he
petitioned the lord high trealurer, at the end of Trini¬
ty term, to intercede wdth his Majefty that he might be
removed to the Gate-houfe, Weftminller, which was
granted : but in Pvdichaelmas term following, the judges
objecting to the lord treafurer’s warrant, by which he
had been removed to the Gate-houfe, an order was made
for conveying him back to the King’s Bench, wffience
he was releafed in the latter end of the fame year ; but
fifteen years after, the parliament ordered him rood,
for the Ioffes he had fuftained on this occafion. He was
afterwards committed with feveral other gentlemen, for
difperfing a libel; but the author, who was abroad, be¬
ing difcovered, they were at length fet at liberty. In
1634, a difpute arifing between the Englifh and Dutch
concerning the herring-filhery on the Britiih coaft, he
vTas prevailed upon by Archbiffiop Laud to draw up his
Mare Claufum, in anfvver to Grotius’s Mare Liberum :
wffiich greatly recommended him to the favour of the
court. In 1640, he was chofen member for the uni¬
verfity of Oxford ; when he again oppofed the court,
though he might, by complying, have raifed himfelf to
very confiderable polls. In 1643, he w-as appointed
one of the lay-members to fit in the affembly of divines
at Weftminfter, and w7as the fame year appointed keeper
of the records in the Tower. Whilft he attended his
duty in the affembly, a warm debate arofe refpedling
the diftance of Jericho from Jerufalem. The party
which contended for the Ihorteft diftance, urged, as a
proof
S E L
M»n proof of their opinion being well founded, that fifhes
H were carried from the one ciLy to.the other, and fold in
the market. 1 ueir adveriai ics were ready to yield to
the force of this conclufive argument, when Selden,
who delpifed both parties, as well as the frivoloufnefs of
their difpute, exclaimed, “ Perhaps the fiihes were fak¬
ed !” This unexpefted remark left the viftory doubt¬
ful, and renewed the debate ; and our author, who was
iick of fuch trilling, foon found employment more fuit-
ed to his genius; for, in 1645, he was made one of the
commitTioners of the admiralty. The fame year he was
unanimoufly elecled mailer of Trinity college, Cam¬
bridge •, but declined accepting. He died in 1654 ;
and was interred in the Temple-church, where a monu¬
ment is ere&ed to his memory. Dr Wilkes observes,
that he was a man of uncommon gravity and greatnefs
of foul, averfe to flattery, liberal to fcholars, charitable to
the poor •, and though he had great latitude in his prin¬
ciples with regard to ecclefiaftical power, yet he had a
fincere regard for the church of England. Ke wrote
many learned works belides thofe already mentioned j
the principal of which are, I. De Jure Naturali et Gen¬
tium juxta Dlfciplinani Hebrceorum. 1. De Nup tits et
Divorciis. 3. De Anno Civili veterum Hebra-orum,
4. Dc Nummis. 5. De Diis Sijris. 6. Uxor Hcbraica.
7. Jani Anp lor urn Facies altera, &c. All his works
were printed together in 1726, in 3 vols folio.
SELENITE, in Mineralogy, the cryltallized ful-
phate of lime or gypfum. See Lihie, in Mineralogy
Index. Selenite literally lignifies tnoon-jlone, and is
predive of the colour and foft luilre of the mineral.
SELENOGRAPHY, a branch of cohnography,
which defcribes the moon and all the parts and appear¬
ances thereof, as geography does thofe of the earth.
See Moon, and Astronomy Index.
SELEUCIA, in Ancient Geography, furnamed Ba¬
bylonia, becaufe fituated on its confines, at the conflu¬
ence of the Euphrates and Tigris. Ptolemy places it
in Mefopotamia. It is called alfo Seleucia ad Tigrim,
(Polybius, Strabo, Ifidorus Characenus) ; walhed on
the louth by the Euphrates, on the call by the Tigris,
(Theophyladlus) 5 generally agreed to have been built
or enlarged by Seleucus Nicanor, mailer of the ealt
after Alexander ; by means of which Babylon came to
be deferted. It is laid to have been originally called
Cache, (Ammian, Eutropius) ; though others, as Arrian,
diilinguilh it, as a village, from Selucia : and, accord¬
ing to Zoflmus, the ancient name of Selucia was Zocha-
fia. Now called Bagdad. E. Long. 44. 21. N. Lat.
33. JO. There were many other cities of the fame
name, all built by Seleucus Nicanor.
SELEUCID/E, in Chronology. Era of the Se-
fcucidae, or the Syro-Macedonian era, is a computa¬
tion of time, commencing from the ellablifhment of the
Seleucidae, a race of Greek kings, who reigned as fuc-
ceilors of Alexander the Great in Syria, as the Ptole¬
mies did in Egypt. This era we find exprefl'ed in the
books of the Maccabees, and on a great number of
Greek medals ftruck by the cities of Syria, &c. The
Rabbins call it the era of contrails, and the Arabs
iherih dilkarnain, that is, the “ era of the two horns.”
According to the bell accounts, the firfi year of this era
falls in the year 311 B. C. being 12 years after Alex¬
ander’s death.
SELEtJCUo, Nicawor, one of the chief generals
SEE
under Alexander the^Great, and, after his death, found- Seleucus
er of the race of princes called Seleucidee. He is equal- ,1!
ly celebrated as a .renowned warrior, and as the father , S~'if'
of his people -r yet his virtues could not proteft him from
the fatal ambition of Ceraunus, one of his courtiers, by
whom he was affaffinated 280 B. C.
SELF-Heal, the Prunella Vulgaris, Lin. This
herb was recommended by the older phyficians as a
mild rellringent and vulnerary; but its virtues appear to
be very feeble, and therefore it is now' rarely ufed.
SELT Command, is that Ready equanimity which en-i
ables a man in every fituation to exert his reafoning
faculty with coolnefs, and to do what the prefent cir-
cumllances require. It depends much upon the natural
temperament ot the body, and much upon the moral cul¬
tivation of the mind. He who enjoys good health4
and has braced his frame by exercife, has always a
greater command of himfelf than a man of equal mental
powers, who has fuffered his conftitution to become re¬
laxed by indolence 5 and he who has from his early
youth been accuitomed to make his pafiions fubmit to
his reafon, mud, in any hidden emergency, be more
capable of afting properly than he who has tarmdy
yielded to his paffion. Hence it is that reclufe and
literary men, when forced into the bullle of public life,
are incapable of afting where promptnefs is requifite;
and that men who have once or twice yielded to a fenfe
of impending danger feldom acquire afterwards that
command of themfelves which may be neceflary to ex¬
tricate them from fubfequent dangers. In one of the
earlieft battles fought by the late king of Pruflia, the fo-
vereign was among the firit men who quitted the field :
had he behaved in the fame manner a fecond and a third
time, he would never have become that hero whole ac¬
tions aflonifhed Europe. A celebrated engineer among
ourfelves, who was well known to the writer of this
mort article, had little Lienee, and was a ftrangcr to
the principles of his own art; but being poffeffed of a
firm and vigorous frame, and having been accuitomed
to firuggle with dangers and difficulties, he had fuch a
conftant command of himfelf, as enabled him to employ
with great coolnefs every neceifary refource in the day
of battle.
_ But it is not only in battle, and in the face of imme¬
diate danger, that felf-command is neceffary to enable a
man to aft with propriety. There is no fituation in life
where difficulties, greater or lefs, are not to be encoun¬
tered 5 and he who would pafs through life with com¬
fort to himfelf, and with utility to the public, mull en¬
deavour to keep his paffions in conflant fubjeftion to his
reafon. No man can enjoy without inquietude what he
cannot lofe without pain; and no man who is overwhelm¬
ed with defpondency under any fudden misfortune can
exert the talents necefifary to retrieve his circumftances.
We ought, therefore, by every means to endeavour to
obtain a conllant command of ourfelves y and nowhere
{hall we find better leffons for this purpofe than in an¬
cient Lacedemon. I here certain occupations were ap¬
pointed for each fex, for every hour, and for every fea-
fon of lire. In a life always aftive, the paffions have
no opnortunity to deceive, feduce, or corrupt ; and the
nervous fyftem acquires a firmnefs which makes it a fit
inflrument to a vigorous mind.
SELF Defence implies not only the prefervation of
one’s life, but alfo the protection of his property, be¬
caufe
[ 127 ]
S E L [ 128 ] S E L
Caufc without property life cannot be preferred in a ci¬
vilized nation. The extent of property efl'ential to life
is indeed fmall, and this eonfideration may enable us to
decide a queftion which fome moralifts have made intri¬
cate. By what means, it has been afked, may a man
protedt his property ? May he kill the perfon who at¬
tacks it, if he cannot otherwife repel the attack ?
That a man, in the Hate of nature, may kill the per¬
fon who makes an attack on his life, if he cannot other-
wife repel the attack, is a truth which has never been
controverted 5 and he may do the fame in civil fociety,
if his danger be fo imminent that it cannot be averted
fey the interpolition of the protection provided for indi¬
viduals by the date. In all poffible fituations, except
the three following, whatever is abfolutely neceffary to
the prefervation of life may be lawfully performed, for
the law of felf-prefervation is the firfl; and molt facred
of thofe laws which are impreffed on every mind by the
author of nature.
The three excepted fituations are thofe of a foldier
in the day of battle, of a criminal about to fuller by the
laws of his country, and of a man called upon to re¬
nounce his religion. The foldier hazards his life in the
molt honourable of all caufes, and cannot betray his
trull, or play the coward, without incurring a high de¬
gree of moral turpitude. He knows that the very pro-
fellion in which he is engaged neceffarily fubjedls him
to danger 5 and he voluntarily incurred that danger for
the good of his country, which, with great propriety,
annexes to his profelTion peculiar privileges and much
glory. The criminal under fentence of death cannot,
without adding to his guilt, refill the execution of that
fentence } for the power of inflicting punilhment is ef-
fential to fociety, and fociety is the ordinance of God,
(fee Society). The man who is called upon to re¬
nounce his religion ought to fubmit to the cruelleft
death rather than comply with that requell, fince reli¬
gion is his only fecurity for future and permanent hap-
pinefs. But in every other fituation, that which is ab¬
folutely neceffary to the prefervation of life is undoubt¬
edly lawful. Hence it is, that a perfon finking in wa¬
ter is never thought to be guilty of any crime, though
he drag his neighbour after him by his endeavours to
lave himfelf; and hence, too, a man in danger of perilh-
ing by Ihipwreck may drive another from a plank which
cannot carry them both, for fince one of tw7o lives mull
be loll, no law, human or divine, calls upon either of
them to prefer his neighbour’s life to his own.
But though the rights of felf-defence authorife us
to repel every attack made upon our life, and in cafes
of extremity to fave ourfelves at the expence of the life
of our innocent neighbour, it is not fo evident that,
rather than give to an unjuft demand a few Ihillings or
pounds, we may lawfully deprive a fellow creature of
life, and the public of a citizen. A few pounds loll;
may be eafily regained j but life when loll can never be
recovered. If thefe pounds, indeed, be the whole of a
man’s property } if they include his clothes, his food,
and the houfe where he Ihelters his head—there cannot
be a doubt but that, rather than part with them, he may
lawfully kill the aggreffor, for no man can exilt with¬
out Ihelter, food, and raiment. But it is feldom that an
attempt is made, or is indeed prafticable, to rob a man
at once of all that he poffeffes. The quellion then of
any importance is, May a man put a robber to death Self,
rather than part with a fmall part of his property ? Mr '——V'3
Paley doubts whether he could innocently do lb in a
Hate of nature, “ becaufe it cannot be contended to
be for the augmentation of human happinefs, that one
man Ihould lole his life or lirpb, rather than another a
pennyworth of his property.” He allows, that in civil
fociety the life of the aggreffor may be always taken
array by the perfon aggrieved, or meant to be aggrieved,
wdren the crime attempted is fuch as would lubject its
perpetrator to death by the laws of his country.
It is not often that we feel ourfelves diipoled to dif.
fer in opinion from this rnolt valuable and intelligent
writer; but on the prefent occafion we cannot help
thinking that he does not reafon with his ufuai preci-
fion. To us he even feems to lofe fight ol his own prin¬
ciples. No legillature can have a right to take away
life in civil fociety, but in luch cafes as individuals havd
the fame right in a itate of nature. If therefore a man
in the Hate of nature, have not a right to protedl his
property by killing the aggreffor, when it cannot be
otherwife protetted, it appears to us felf-evident that no
legillature can have a right to inflift the punifliment of
death upon fuch offences j but if the laws inflicting
death upon the crime of robbery be morally evil, it is
certain that an individual cannot be innocent when he
prevents robbery by the death of the robber, merely
becaufe he knows that the laws of bis country have de¬
creed that punifliment againlt thofe conviCled of that
crime. But we think that the proteftion of property
by the death of the aggreffor may be completely vindi¬
cated upon more general principles. It is neceffary, in
every llate, that property be protefted, or mankind
could not fubfill *, but in a Hate of nature every man
mull be the defender of his own property, which in
that Hate mull neceffarily be fmall: and if he be not al¬
lowed to defend it by every mean in his power, he will
not long be able to protedl it at all. By giving him
fuch liberty, a few individuals may, indeed, occafionally
lofe their lives and limbs for the prefervation of a very
fmall portion of private property j but we believe that
the fum of human happinefs will be more augmented by
cutting off fuch worthlefs wretches than by expofing
property to perpetual depredation j and therefore, if
general utility be the criterion of moral good, we muft
be of opinion that a man may in every cafe lawfully kill
a robber rather than comply with his unjuft demand.
But if a man may without guilt preferve his proper¬
ty by the death of the aggreffor, when it cannot be pre-
ferved by any other means, much more may a w7oman
have recourfe to the laft extremity to proteft her chaf-
tity from forcible violation. This, indeed, is admitted
by Mr Paley himfelf, and will be controverted by no
man who reflefts on the importance of the female cha¬
racter, and the probable confequences of the fmalleft
deviation from the eftablifhed laws of female honour.
See Seduction.
SELF-Knowledge, the knowledge of one’s own cha¬
racter, abilities, opinions, virtues, and vices. This has
always been confidered as a difficult though important
acquifition. It is difficult, becaufe it is difagreeable to
inveftigate our errors, our faults, and vices ; becaule we
are apt to be partial to ouvfelves, even when we have
done wrong 5 and becaufe time and habitual attention
are
S E L [ 129 ] S E L
Self. are reqaifite to enable us to difcover our real chara&er.
J3ut thefe difficulties are more than counterbalanced by
the advantages of felf-knowledge.
By knowing the extent of our abilities, we ffiall ne¬
ver ralhly engage in enterpiifes where our inefie&ual
exertions may be produftive of harm : by inveftigating
our opinions, we may difcover thofe which have no
foundation, and thofe alfo which lead us infenfibly into
vice. By examining our virtues and vices, we fhall
learn what principles ought to be ftrengthened, and
what habits ought to be removed.
Man is a rational and intelligent being, capable of
great improvement, and liable to great vices. If he aft
without examining his principles, he may be hurried
by blind pafiion into crimes. If he afpire at noble and
valuable acquifitions, he muft aft upon a plan, with de¬
liberation and fore thought; for he is not like a vege¬
table, which attains perfection by the indue».ce of ex¬
ternal caufes : he has powers within himfelf which mult
be exerted, and exerted with judgement, in order to at¬
tain the perfection of his nature. To enable him to
employ tbefe powers aright, he muft know, firft, what
is his duty ; and, fecondly, he muft often review his
principles and conduft, that he may difcover whether
he is performing his duty, or in what circumftances he
has failed. When he finds that he has fallen into er¬
ror and vice, he will naturally inquire what caufes have
produced this effeft, that he may avoid the fame for the
time to come. This is the method by which every re¬
formation in religion and fcience has been produced,
and the method by which the arts have been improved.
Before Lord Bacon introduced the new way of philo-
fophizing, he muft firft have confidered wherein true
philofophy confifted ; fecondly, he muft have inquired
in what refpefts the ancient method of philofophizing
uras falfe or ufelefs : and after determining thefe two
points, he was qualified to defcribe the v.'ay by which
the lludy of philofophy could be fuccefsfully purfued
without deviating into hypotbefis and error. Luther
found out the errors of the church of Rome by com¬
paring their doftrines with the Scriptures. But had
this comparifon never been made, the reformation could
never have taken place. Without felf-knowledge, or
without that knowledge of our charafter which is de¬
rived from a comparifon of our principles and conduft
with a perfeft ftandard of morality, we can never form
plans and refolutions, or make any exertion to aban¬
don the vicious habits which we have contrafted, and
llrengthen thofe virtuous principles in which we are
deficient.
As much may be learned from the errors of thofe
who have been in fimilar fituations with ourfelves } fo
many ufeful cautions may be obtained from our own
errors •, and he that will remember thefe, will feldom be
twice guilty of the fame vice.
It was evidently the intention of Providence that
man (hould be guided chiefly by experience. It is by
the obfervations which we make on what we fee pafling
around us, or from what we fuffer in our own perfon,
that we form maxims for the conduft of life. The more
minutely therefore we attend to our principles, and the
more maxims we form, we ihall be the better fitted to
attain morrd perfeftion.
With refpeft to our underftanding, to mark the
errors which we have fallen into, either by its natural
Vol. XIX. Part I.
defefts or by negligence, is alfo of great importance ; Self
for the greateft genius and moft profound fcholar are u“—■v-
liable to thefe errors, and often commit them as well as
the weak and illiterate. But by obferving them, and
tracing them to their caufes, they at length acquire an
habitual accuracy. It is true, that men of feeble minds
can never by knowing their own defefts exalt themfelves
to the rank of genius j but fuch knowledge will enable
them to improve their underitandings, and fo to appre¬
ciate their own powers, as feldom to attempt what is
beyond their ftrength. They may thus become ufeful
members of fociety j and though they will not probably
be admired for their abilities, they will yet efcape the
ridicule which is poured upon vanity.
It is difficult to lay down precife rules for the acqui-
fltion of this felf-knowledge, becaufe almoft every man
is blinded by a fallacy peculiar to himfelf. But when
one has got rid of that partiality which arifes from felf-
love, he may eafily form a juft eftimate of his moral im¬
provements, by comparing the general courfe of his
conduft with the ftandard of his duty j and if he has
any doubt of the extent of his intelleftual attainments,
he will moft readily difcover the truth by comparing
them with the attainments of others who have been molt
fuccefsful in the fame purfuits. Should vanity arife in
his mind from fuch a comparifon, let him then compare
the extent of his knowledge with what is yet to be
known, and he will then be in little danger of thinking
of himfelf more highly than he ought to think. See
Prejudice and Self Partiality.
SELF-Love, is that inftinftive principle which impels
every animal, rational and irrational, to preferve its life
and promote its own happinefs. It is very generally
confounded with felfifhnefs ; but we think that the one
propenfity is diftinft from the other. Every man loves
himfelf 5 but every man is not felfifti. The felfirti man
grafps at all immediate advantages, regardlefs of the con-
1'equcnces which his conduft may have upon his neigh¬
bour. Self-love only prompts him who is aftuated by
it to procure to himfelf the greateft poffible fum of hap¬
pinefs during the whole of his exiftence. In this pur-
fuit the rational felf-lover will often forego a prefent
enjoyment to obtain a greater and more permanent one
in reverfion 5 and he will as often fubmit to a prefent
pain to avoid a greater hereafter. Self-love, as diftin-
guifhed from felfiftmefs, always comprehends the whole
of a man’s exiftence, and in that extended fenfe of the
phrafe, we hefitate not to fay that every man is a felf-
lover ; for, with eternity in his view, it is furely not
poffible for the moft difinterefted of the human race not
to pre er himfelf to all other men, if their future and
everlafting interefts could come into competition. This
indeed they never can do ; for though the introduftion
of evil into the world, and the different ranks which it
makes neceflary in fociety, put it in the power of a man
to raife himfelf, in the prefent ftate, by the depreffion of
his neighbour, or by the praftice of injuftice, yet in
the purfuit of a prize which is to be gained only by fo-
bernefs, righteoufnefs, and piety, there can be no rivai-
fhip among the different competitors. The fuccefs of
one is no injury to another ; and therefore, in this fenfe
of the phrafe, felf-love is not only lawful, but abfolutely
unavoidable. It has been a queftion in morals, whether
it be not likewife the incentive to every aftion, however,
virtuous or apparently difinterefted ?
R
Thofe
S E L [i,pj S E L
Thofe who maintain the affirmative fide of this queftion
lay, that the profpeft of immediate pleafure, or the dread
of immediate pain, is the only apparent motive to aftion
in the minds of infants, and indeed of all who look not
before them, and infer the future from the paft. They
own, that when a boy has had fome experience, and is
capable of making comparifons, he will often decline an
immediate enjoyment which he has formerly found pro-
duftive of future evil more than equivalent to all its
good } but in doing fo they think, and they think jultly,
that he is dill actuated by the principle of felf-love, pur-
fuing the greateft good of which he knows himfelf to be
capable. After experiencing that truth, equity, and
benevolence in all his dealings is the readied, and indeed
the only certain method of fecuring to himlelf the kind-
nefs and good offices of his fellow creatures, and much
more when he has learned that they will recommend
him to the Supreme Being, upon whom depends his
exitlence and all his enjoyments, they admit that he will
practice truth, equity, and benevolence j but dill, from
the fame principle, purfuing his own ultimate happinefs
as the object which he has always in view. The pro-
Ipeft of this great objedt will make him feel an exqui-
fite pleafure in the performance of the actions w'hich he
conceives as neceffary to its attainment, till at lad, with¬
out attending in each indance to their confequences, he
will, by the great affbciating principle which has been
explained elfewhere (fee Metaphysics, Part I. chap, i.)
feel a refined enjoyment in the adtions themfelves, and
perform them, as occafions offer, without deliberation or
refledtion. Such, they think, is the origin of benevo¬
lence itfelf, and indeed of every virtue.
Thofe who take the other fide of the quedion, can
hardly deny that felf-love thus modified may prompt to
virtuous and apparently difinterelled condudt ; but they
think it degrading the dignity of a man to fuppofe him
actuated folely by motives which can be traced back to
a defire of his own happinefs. They obferve, that the
Author of our nature has not left the prefervation of the
individual, or the continuance of the fpecies, to the de-
dudtions of our realbn, computing the futn of happinefs
which the adtions neceffary to thefe ends produce to
curfelves : on the contrary, He has taken care of both,
by the furer impu'fe of indindt planted in us for thefe
very purpofes. And is it conceivable, fay they, that He
would leave the care of our fellow-creatures a matter of
indifference, till each man fliould be able to difeover or
be taught that by loving his neighbour, and doing him
all the good in his power, he would be mod effedfually
promoting his own happinefs ? It is didionouring virtue,
they continue, to make it proceed in any indance from a
profpedt of happinefs, or a dread of mifery ; and they
appeal from theory to fad!, as exhibited in the condudl
of favage tribes, who deliberate little on the confequences
of their adlions.
Their antagonids reply, that the condud! of favage
tribes is to be confidered as that of children in civilized
nations, regulated entirely by the examples which they
have before them ; that their adlions cannot be the
offspring of innate indindls, other wife favage virtues
would, under fimilar circumdances, everywhere be the
fame, which is contrary to fad! •, that virtue proceeds
from an intereded motive on either fuppofition •, and
that the motive which the indindtive fcheme holds up
is the mod felfifh of the two. The other theory fup-
pofes, that the governing motive is the hope of future Self,
happinefs and the dread of future mifery ; the inftinc- 'y—
tive fcheme fupplies a prefent motive in the felf-compla-
cency arifing in the heart from a confcioufnefs of right
condud!. The former is a rational motive, the latter
has nothing more to do with reafon than the enjoyment
arifing from eating or drinking, or from the intercourfe
between the fexes. But we mean not to purlue the
fubjed! farther, as we have faid enough on it in the
articles Benevolence, Instinct, Passion, and Phi¬
lanthropy. We ffiall therefore conclude with ob-
ferving, that there is certainly a virtuous as well as a
vicious felf-love, and that “ true felf-love and focial are
the fame.”
SELF-Murder. See Suicide.
Sel,F-Partiality, is a phrafe employed by fome philo-
fophers * to exprels that weaknefs of human nature if See Lord
through which men overvalue ihemfelves when com- Kaiwes’s
pared with ethers. It is difiinguiffied from general ^
partiality, by thofe wffio make ufe of the expreffion, be-
caufe it is thought that a man is led to overrate his own
accomplidmients, either by a particular indindt, or by a
procefs of intelledl different from that by which he over¬
rates the accompliffiments of his friends or children. The
former kind of partiality is w'holly felfiffi j the latter
partakes much of benevolence.
This diftindlion may perhaps be deemed plaufible by
thofe who confider the human mind as little more than
a bundle of inftindls ; but it mud; appear perfedlly ridi¬
culous to fuch as refolve the greater part of apparent
indindls into early and deep-rooted affociations of ideas.
If the partialities which mod men have to their friends,
their families, and themfelves, be indindlive, they are
certainly indindls of different kinds j but an inftindlive
partiality is a contradidlion in terms. Partiality is
founded on a comparifon between twm or more objedls ;
but genuine indindls form no comparifons. See In¬
stinct. No man can be faid to be partial to the late
Dr Johnfon, merely for thinking highly of his intel-
ledtual powers 5 nor was the dodlor partial to himfelf,
though he thought in this refpedl with the generality of
his countrymen ; but if, upon a comparifon with Milton,
he was deemed the greater poet of the two, fuch a
judgement will be allowed to be partial, whether formed
by himfelf or by any of his admirers. We apprehend,
however, that the procefs of its formation was the fame
in every mind by which it wras held.
The origin of felf-partiality is not difficult to be
found ; and our partialities to our friends may be traced
to a fimilar fource. By the conditution of our nature
we are impelled to ffiun pain and to purfue pleafure ;
but remorfe, the fevered of all pains, is the never-fail¬
ing confequence of vicious condudl. Remorfe arifes
from the dread of that puniffiment which we believe
will in a future date be inflidled on vice unrepented of
in this ; and therefore every vicious perfon endeavours
by all peffible means to baniffi that dread from his own
mind. One way of effedling this is to compare his
own life with the lives of others ; for he fancies that if
numbers be as wicked as himfelf, the benevolent Lord
of all things will not involve them in one common
ruin. Hence, by magnifying to himfelf the tempta¬
tions which led him adray, and diminifiiing the injuries
which his condudl has done in the world, and by adopt¬
ing a courfe diametrically the reverfe, when edimating
S E L [ 131 1 SEE
Self, the morality or immorality of the condu£l of his neigh-
Sellm. hours, he foon comes to believe that he is at leaft not
—'r more wicked than they. Thus is felf-partiality formed
in the mind, and quickly blinds him who is under its
influence fo completely, as to hide from him the very
faults which he fees and blames in others. Hence the
coward thinks himfelf only cautious, the mifer frugal,
Partiality is formed in the very fame manner to natural
or acquired accomplifliments, whether mental or corpo¬
real. Thefe always procure refpeft to him who is pof-
feifed of them j and as refpeft is accompanied with
many advantages, every man wiflies to obtain it for him¬
felf. If he fail in his attempts, he confoles himfelf with
the perfuafion that it is at leail due to his merits, and
that it is only withheld by the envy of the public. He
compares the particular branch of fcience or bodily ac-
complilhment in which he himfelf moft excels, with
thofe which have conferred fplcndor on his rival and
eafily finds that his ow.n excellencies are of the higheft
order, and entitled to the greateil (hare of public efteem.
Hence the polite fcholar defpifes the mathematician ;
the reader of Ariftotle and Plato all the modern dif-
coveries in phyfical and moral fcience *, and the mere ex-
perimentalift holds in the moft fovereign contempt a cri¬
tical knowledge of the ancient languages. The pupil
of the ancients denies the merits of the moderns, whilft
the mere modern allows nothing to the ancients ^and
thus each becomes partial to his own acquifitions, ahd
of courfe to himfelf, for having been at the trouble to
make them.
Partiality to out friends and families is generated in
the very fame way. Whenever we acquire fuch an af-
fe&ion for them as to confider their happinefs as adding
to our own (fee Passion), we magnify their excel¬
lencies, and diminilh their defeats, for the fame rea-
fon, and by the fame procefs, that we magnify and di-
minifti our own. All partialities, however, are preju¬
dices, and prejudices of the worft kind. They ought
therefore to be guarded againft with the utmoft care,
by the fame means which we have elfewhere recom¬
mended (fee Prejudice and Metaphysics, N° 98.) $
and he who is partial to his own virtue or his own
knowledge, wall do well to compare the former, not
with the conduft of his neighbour, but with the exprefs
rule of his duty j and to confider the latter as no farther
valuable than as it contributes to the him of human hap¬
pinefs.
SELIM I. emperor of the Turks, was the fecond
fon of Bajazet II. He made wTar upon his father, and
though defeated in 1511, he at laft dethroned him and
took him prifoner, and immediately difpatched him by
poifon, together with his elder brother Achmet, and
his younger Korkud, an amiable and enlightened prince.
Having eftablifhed his throne by thefe crimes, he march¬
ed againft Campfon-Guary fovereign of Egypt, gained
a great vi&ory at Aleppo, and flew their general. But
though the .fultan periftied in that battle, the Mame-
luks determined to oppofe the emperor. Selim enter¬
ing their country at the head of his army, defeated the
Egyptians in two battles, and ordered Toumonbai, the
new defied fullan, w'ho had fallen into his hands, to be
hung on a gibbet. He then took Cairo and Alexandria,
•and in a Ihort time reduced all Egypt to fubjeflion.
Thus ended the dominion of the Mameluks in Egypt,
which had continued for more than 260 years. He Selim
confirmed the ancient privileges of the Venetians in 11
Egypt and Syria, by which they carried on their com- Se^r^
merce with India, and formed a league with them to
deftroy the power of the Portuguefe in that country.
(See India, N° 37.) Selim had before this gained a
great viflory over the Perfians, and ftripped them of
Tauris and Keman. He was preparing to attack Chri-
ftendom when he was feized with an ulcerous fore in
the back. Thinking that the air of Adrianople w’ould
reftore his health, he ordered himfelf to be condufled
thither j but he died at Clari in Thrace on his road to
that city, in the year 1520, in the very fpot where he
had poifoned his father. He reigned eight years, and
lived 54. He was a prince of great courage, fobriety,
and liberality : he was fond of hiftory, and wrote fome
verfes. But thefe good qualities were obfeured by the
moft abominable crimes that ever difgraced human na¬
ture ; he made his way to the throne by fhedding the
blood of his father, and fecured it by murdering his bro¬
thers and eight nephews, and every balhaw who had
been faithful to his duty.
SELINUM, a genus of plants belonging to the pent-
andria clafs $ and in the natural method ranking under
the 45th order, Umbellate?. See Botany Index.
SELKIRK, Alexander, wdiofe adventures gave
rife to a well-knowrn hiftorical romance, was born at
Largo, in Fife-fture in Scotland, about the year 1676,
and was bred a feaman. He went from England, in
1703, in the capacity of failing-mailer of a fmall veffel
called the Cinque-Ports Galley, Charles Pickering cap¬
tain, burthen about 90 tons, with 16 guns and 63 men j
and in September the fame year failed from Cork, in
company with another fhip of 26 guns and 120 men,
called the St George, commanded by that famous na¬
vigator William Dampier, intended to cruife againft the
Spaniards in the South fea. On the coaft of Brazil,
Pickering died, and was fucceeded in his command by
his lieutenant Thomas Stradling. They proceeded on
their voyage round Cape Horn to the iftand of Juan Fer¬
nandes, whence they were driven by the appearance of
two French Ihips of 36 guns each, and left five of Strad-
ling’s men there on Ihore, who were taken off by the
French. Hence they failed to the coaft of America,
where Dampier and Stradling quarrelled, and feparated
by agreement, on the 19th of May 1704. In Septem¬
ber following, Stradling came again to the ifland of Juan
Fernandes, where Selkirk and his captain had a differ¬
ence, which, with the circumftance of the Ihip’s being
very leaky, and in bad condition, induced him to deter¬
mine • n llaying there alone •, but when his companions
were about to depart, his refolution was lhaken, and he
defired to be taken on board again. The captain, how¬
ever, refufed to admit him, and he was obliged to re¬
main, having nothing but his clothes, bedding, a gun,
and a finall quantity of powder and ball ■, a hatchet,
knife, and kettle j his books, and mathematical and nau¬
tical inftruments. He kept up his fpirits tolerably till
he faw the veffel put off, when (as he afterwards relat¬
ed) his heart yearned within him, and melted at parting
with his comrades and all human fociety at once.
  Yet believe me, Areas,
Such is the rooted love we bear mankind,
R 2
All
S E L [ 132 ] s E L
All ruffians as they were, I never heard
A found fo difmal as their parting oars.”
Thom/on's Agamemnon.
Thus left foie monarch of the ifland, with plenty of
the neceffaries of life, he found himfelf in a fituation
hardly fupportable. He had fifh, goat’s flefli, turnips
and other vegetables ; yet he grew deje&ed, languid,
and melancholy, to fuch a degree, as to be fcarce able
to refrain from doing violence to himfelf. Eighteen
months pafled before he could, by reafoning, reading
his bible, and ftudy, he thoroughly reconciled to his
condition. At length he grew happy, employing him¬
felf in decorating his huts, chafing the goats, whom he
equalled in fpeed, and fcarcely ever failed of catching.
He alfo tamed young kids, laming them to prevent
their becoming wild $ and he kept a guard of tame cats
about him, to defend him when afleep from the rats,
rvho were very troublefome. When his clothes were
worn out, he made others of goats Ikins, but could not
lucceed in making ffioes, with the ufe of which, how¬
ever, habit, in time, enabled him to difpenfe. His on¬
ly liquor was water. He computed that he had caught
1000 goats during his abode in the ifland; of which
he had let go 500, after marking them by flitting their
ears. Commodore Anfon’s people, who were there
about 30 years after, found the firfl goat which they
fhot upon landing, was thus marked, and as it appeared
to be very old, concluded that it had been under the
power of Selkirk. But it appears by Captain Carteret’s
account of his voyage in the Swallow Hoop, that other
perfons praftifed this mode of marking, as he found a
goat wdth his ears thus flit on the neighbouring ifland
of Mas-a-fuera, where Selkirk never w^as. He made
companions of his tame goats and cats, often dancing
and finging with them. Though he conftantly per¬
formed his devotions at ftated hours, and read aloud ;
yet, when he was taken off the ifland, his language,
from difufe of converfation, had become fcarcely intelli¬
gible. In this folitude he continued four years and
four months; during which time only twm incidents
happened which he thought w-orth relating, the occur¬
rences of every day being in his circumflances nearly
fimilar. The one was, that, purfuing a goat eagerly,
he caught it juft on the edge of a precipice, which was
covered with bufhes, fo that he did not perceive it, and
he fell over to the bottom, where he lay (according to
Captain Roger’s account) 24 hours fenfelefs; but, as he
related to Sir R. Steele, he computed, by the alteration
of the moon, that he had lain three days. When he
came to himfelf, he found the goat lying under him dead.
It was with great difficulty that he could crawd to his
habitation, whence he wras unable to ftir for ten days,
and did not recover of his bruifes for a long time. The
other event was the arrival of a fhip, which he at firft
fuppofed to be French : and fuch is the natural love of
fociety in the human mind, that he was eager to aban¬
don his folitary felicity, and furrender himfelf to them,
although enemies; but upon their landing, approach¬
ing them, he found them to be Spaniards, of whom he
had too great a dread to truft himfelf in their hands.
They were by this time fo near that it required all his
agility to efcape, which he effe&ed by climbing into a
thick tree, being {hot at feveral times as he ran off.
Fortunately the Spaniards did not difcover him, though
they flayed fome time under the tree where he was hid, Selkirk,
and killed fome goats juft by. In this folitude Selkirkv—
remained until the 2d of February 1709, when he favv
two (hips come into the bay, and knew them to be
Englilh. He immediately lighted a fire as a fignal;
and on their coming on fhore, found they were the
Duke Captain Rogers, and the Duchefs Captain Court¬
ney, two privateers from Briftol. He gave them the
beft entertainment he could afford ; and, as t}rey had
been a long time at fea without frefh provifions, the
goats which he caught wrere highly acceptable. His
habitation confifting of twTo huts, one to fleep in, the
other to drefs his food in, was fo obfcurely fituated, and
fo difficult of accefs, that only one of the ftiip’s officers
would accompany him to it. Dampier, who was pilot
on board the Duke, and knew Selkirk very well,
told Captain Rogers, that, when on board the Cinque-
Ports, he was the beft feaman in the veffel ; upon
which Captain Rogers appointed him mailer’s mate of
the Duke. After a fortnight’s flay at Juan Fernandes,
the {hips proceeded on their cruize againft the Spa¬
niards ; plundered a town on the coaft of Peru ; took a
Manilla {hip off California ; and returned by way of
the Eaft Indies to England, where they arrived the 1 ft
of Oftober 1711 ; Selkirk having been abfent eight
years, more than half of which time he had fpent alone
in the ifland. The public curiofity being excited refpeft-
ing him, he was induced to put his papers into the
hands of Defoe, to arrange and form them into a re¬
gular narrative. Thefe papers muft have been drawn
up after he left Juan Fernandes, as he had no means of
recording his tranfaftions there. Captain Cooke re¬
marks, as an extraordinary circumftance, that he had
contrived to keep an account of the days of the week
and month ; but this might be done, as Defoe makes
Robinfon Crufoe do, by cutting notches in a poll, or
many other methods. From this account of Selkirk,
Defoe took the idea of writing a more extenfive work,
the romance of Robinfon Crufoe, and very diftioneftly *
defrauded the original proprietor of his {hare of the
profits. Of the time or place or manner of this extra¬
ordinary man’s death we have received no account; but
in 1798 the cheft and mulket which Selkirk had with
him on the ifland were in the poffeffion of his grand¬
nephew, John Selkirk weaver in Largo.
The circumftances of Selkirk’s feclufion from human
fociety during his ftay on Juan Fernandes, and the fen-
timents which that fituation naturally infpired, have
been fo finely and chara6leriftically depifted by Mr
Cowper, that many of our readers, we doubt not,
will be gratified if we give the verfes alluded to a
place here.
I am monarch of all I furvey,
My right there is none to difpute ;
From the centre all round to the fea,
I am lord of the fowl and the brute.
Oh, folitude ! where are the charms
That fages have feen in thy face ?
Better dwell in the midft of alarms,
Than reign in this horrible place.
I am out of humanity’s reach,
I muft finifti my journey alone,
Never hear the fweet mufic of fpeech ;
I ftart at the found of my own.
The
S E L [i
Selkiik. Xhe beafls that roam over the plain,
My form with indifference fee >'
They are fo unacquainted with man,
Their tamenefs is (hocking to me.
Society, friendfhip, and love,
Divinely bellow’d upon man,
Oh, had I the wings of a dove,
How foon wrould I tafte you again !
My furrows I then might affuage
In the ways of religion and truth,
Might learn from the wifdom of age,
And be cheer’d by the fallies of youth.
Religion ’ what treafure untold
Refides in that heavenly word !
More precious than filver and gold,
Or all that this earth can afford.
But the found of the church-going bell
Thefe valleys and rocks never heard,
Ne’er figh’d at the found of a knell,
Or fmil’d when a fabbath appear’d.
Ye winds that have made me your fport,
Convey to this defolate fhore
Some cordial endearing report
Of a land I (hall vifit no more.
My friends, do they now and then fend
A wi(h or a thought after me ?
O tell me I yet have a friend,
Though a friend 1 am never to fee.
How fleet is a glance of the mind !
Compar’d with the fpeed of its flight,
The temped itfelf lags behind,
And the fwift-winged arrows of light.
When I think of my owm native land,
In a moment I feem to be there }
But alas ! recollection at hand
Soon hurries me back to defpair.
But the fea-fowl is gone to her nefl,
The bead is laid down in his lair,
Ev’n here is a feafon of red,
And I to my cabin repair.
There’s mercy in every place ;
And mercy, encouraging thought!
Gives even affliction a grace,
And reconciles man to his lot.
SELKIRK, the capital of the county of the fame name,
is a fmall towm pleafantly fituated on a riflng ground,
and enjoys an extenfive profpeCt in all directions, efpe-
cially in the courfe of the river Ettrick. It is remark¬
able for thofe plaintive airs produced in its neighbour¬
hood, the natural fimplicity of which are the pride of
Scotland and the admiration of drangers.
The citizens of this burgh, like the other inhabitants
of the flieriffdom oi Ettrick fored, rendered themfelves
famous by adhering to the fortune of their fovereign
, .lames IV. Of 100 citizens who followed that monarch
to the plains of Flodden, a few returned loaded with
(polls taken from the Englifli. Of the trophies of that
day, there yet remains in the poffeflion of the corporation
of weavers, a dandard taken by a member of that body.
It may alfo be mentioned, that the fword of William
Brydone, the town-clerk, who led the citizens to the
t attle, and was knighted for his valour, dill remains, it
is laid, in the poffcflion of a citizen of Selkirk, his li-
33 1 SEE
neal defcendent. The defperate valour of the citizens, Selkirk
however, fo exafperated the Englidi, that they reduced
their defencelefs towm to afhes ; but tbeir grateful fo- f[1.-re_'
vereign, James V. (hewed bis fenfe of their fervices by t—y—
a grant of an extenfive track of Ettrick fored, the trees
for building their houfes, and the property as a reward
for their heroifm. Selkirk is a royal burgh, uniting
with Lanark, Linlithgow and Peebles, in fending a
member to parliament. W. Long. 2. 46. N. Lat. 55. 26.
SELKIRK-SHIRE, called alfo the Sheriffdom of
Ettrick Forejl, a county of Scotland, extending about
20 miles in length from ead to wed, and about 1 2 in
breadth from fouth to north. It borders on the north
wdth part of Tw^eeddale and Mid-Lothian 5 on the
fouth and ead with Teviotdale j and on the wed wdth
Annandale. This county wms formerly referved by the
Scottidi princes for the pleafure of the chace, and where
they had houfes for the reception of their train. At
that time the face of the country wras covered with
wroods, in which there wrere great numbers of red and
fallow deer, whence it had the name of Ettrick Eoreft.
The woods, however, are nowr almod entirely cut dowm,
and the county is chiefly fupported by the breed of (beep.
They are generally fold into the fouth, but fometimes
into the Highlands, about the month of March, where
they are kept during fummer; and after being improved
by the mountain-grafs, are returned into the Lowlands
in the beginning of winter.
This county, though not very populous at prefent,
was once the nurfe of heroes, who were juftly account¬
ed the bulwark of their native foil, being ever ready to
brave danger and death in its defence. Of this w’e
have a memorable proof in the pathetic lamentations
of their w’ives and daughters for the difaiter of the field
of Flodden, “ where their brave forefters were a’ wed
away.” The rivers Ettrick and Yarrow unite a little
above the town of Selkirk, and terminate in the Tweed. Account oj
For five miles above its jundtion with the Etterick, the^°^”rf’
Tweed is (till adorned with woods, and leads the pleafed
imagination to contemplate what this country muff
have been in former times. The Yarrow, for about
five miles above its jundtion with Ettrick, exhibits na¬
ture in a bold and (triking afpedt. Its native woods
(till remain, through which the ftream has cut its turbid
courie, deeply ingulphed amidfl: rugged rocks. Here,
certainly in a flood, flood the defcriptive Thomfon when
he faw it
“ Work and boil, and foam and thunder through.”
On a peninfula, cut out by the furrounding ftream,
in the middle of this fantaftically wild fcene of grandeur
and beauty, (lands the caftle of Newark, which has been
luppofed by many to be the birthplace of Mary Scot
the flower of Yarrow.
The population of this county in 1801 amounted to
5070, but the following is the population of the differ¬
ent pariihes at two different periods, according to the
Statiftical Hiftory.
Parifhes.
Ettrick,
Galafliiels,
Population Population in
in r7SS* 1790—1798.
397 47°
998 914 .
Carry forward, 1395 *384
Selkirk
S E
M [ 134 ] S. E M
Parises Population Population in
‘ in 1755. 1790—1798.
Brought over, I395 I384
Selkirk, 1793 1700
Yarrow, 1180 I230
4368 4314
43 r4
Decreafe, 54
SELL, or Sill, in building, is of two kinds, viz.
Ground Se//, denoting the lowed; piece cf timber in a
wooden building, and that on which the whole fuper-
ftrudlure is railed ; and fell of a window or of a door,
which is the bottom piece in the frame of them on which
they reft.
SELLA turcica, is a deep impreflion between the
clinoid procel’s of the fphenoid bone. See Anatomy
Index.
SE LTZER water, is a mineral water which fprings
up at Lower Seltzer, a village in the eleftorate of Triers,
about 10 miles from Frankfort on the Mayne, and 36
from Coblentz.
Seltzer water is brought to this country in ftone
bottles, which are clofely corked and fealed, and con¬
tain about 3 pints each ; and when they are well fecu-
red, it keeps unchanged for a confiderable time.
Seltzer water, according to the analyfts of Bergman,
contains in an Englifti wine pint,
gn.
Carbonate of lime 3
• of magnefia 5
-—.   of foda 4
Muriate of foda 17.5
29-5
The fame quantity of water alfo yields 17 cubic inches
of a gafeous fubftance, which is found to be almoft en¬
tirely pure carbonic acid gas.
This rvater has been long in high repute, on account
of its medical virtues, and we have no doubt that it
may be ufed with confiderable benefit in many of thofe
complaints which arife from a deranged ftate of the fto-
mach and bowels. The ufual dofe of this water is from
half a pint to a pint •, but in moft cafes it may be drunk
freely. From its agreeable tafte, and its exhilaiating
effefts on the fpirits, it is extenlively employed at table
as a common drink in Germany and Holland. In this
country alfo, both the real and artificial Seltzer water is
largely ufed for the fame purpofe. Seltzer water may
be artificially imitated, by adding the ingredients diluted
by analyfis, and in the fame proportion.
SEM, or Shem, the fon of Noah, memorable for his
filial piety in concealing the folly and difgrace of his
father, for which he received a remarkable Senedidlion,
about 2476 B. C. Fie lived to the age of 600 years.
Pas SEM. See Ras Sem and PETBIFIED City.
SEMECARPUS, a genus of plants belonging to
the pentandria clafs. See Botany Index.
SEMEN, Seed. See Botany Index.
With refpedt to number, plants are either furnifhed
■with one feed, as fea-pink and biftort 5 two, as wood-
roof and the umbelliferous plants; three, as fpurge 5
four, as the lip-flowers of Tournefort and rough-leaved
4
plants of Ray ; or many, as ranunculus, anemone, and Semen,
poppy. ... . . ^
The form of feeds is likewife extremely various, being
either large or fmall, round, oval, heart-fhaped, kidney-
ihaped, angular, prickly, rough,, hairy, wrinkled, lleek
or (hining, black, W'hite, or brown. Moft feeds have
only one cell or internal cavity } thofe of leiTer burdock,
valerian, lamb’s lettuce, cornelian, cherry, and febeilen,
have two.
With refpedt to fubftance, feeds are either foft, mem¬
branaceous, or of a hard bony fubftance j as in grom-
wrell, tamarind, and all the nuciferous plants.
In point of magnitude, feeds are either very large, as
in the cocoa-nut j or very final!, as in campanula, cm-
rnannia, rampions, and throat-wort.
With xefpedl: to fituation, they are either difperfed
promifeuoufly through the pulp (femina nidulantia), as
in wrater-lily ; affixed to a future ©r joining of the valves
of the feed-vefiel, as in the crofs-fhaped and pea-bloum
flowers ; or placed upon a placenta or receptacle within
the feed veffel, as in tobacco and thorn-apple.
Seeds are faid to be naked (femina nuda^ which are
not contained in a cover or veffel : fuch are thofe of the
lip and compound flowers, the umbelliferous and rough¬
leaved plants. Covered feeds (femina te£la() are con¬
tained in fome veffel, whether of the capfule, pod, ber-
ry, apple, or cherry kind.
A Ample feed is fuch as bears neither crowm, wing,
nor downy pappus; the varieties in feeds, arifing from
thefe circumftanees, are particularly enumerated under
their refpedlive heads.
In affimilating the animal and vegetable kingdoms,
Linnaeus denominates feeds the eggs of plants. The
fecundity of plants is frequently marvellous 5 from a
fingle plant or ftalk of Indian Turkey wheat, are pro¬
duced, in one fummer, 2000 feeds j of elecampane,
3000 } of fun-flower, 4000 ; of poppy, 32,0005 of a
fpike of cat’s tail, 10,000 and upwards: a fingle fruit,
or feed-veffel, of tobacco, contains loco feeds; that of
white poppy, 8cco. Mr Ray relates, from experi¬
ments made by himfelf, that 1012 tobacco feeds are
equal in weight to one grain ; and that the weight of
the whole quantum of feeds in a fingle tobacco plant,
is fuch as muft, according to the above proportion, de¬
termine their number to be 360,000. The fame author
eflimates the annual produce of a fingle ftalk of fpleen-
wort to be upw ards of one million of feeds.
The diffemination of plants refpedls the different me¬
thods or vehicles by which nature has contrived to dif-
perfe their feeds for the purpofe of increafe. Thefe by
naturalifts are generally reckoned four.
1. Rivers and running whalers. 2. The wind. 3. Ani¬
mals. 4. An elaftic fpring, peculiar to the feeds them-
felves.
1. The feeds which are carried along by rivers and
torrents are frequently conveyed many hundreds of
leagues from their native foil, and call upon a very dif¬
ferent climate, to which, however, by degrees they ren¬
der themfelves familiar.
2. Thofe which are carried by the wind, are either
winged, as in fir-tree, trumpet-flower, tulip-tree, birch,
arbor-vitae, meadow rue, and jeffamine, and fome um¬
belliferous plants; furnifhed with a pappus, or downy
crown, .as in valerian, poplar, reed, fucculent-fwallow-
wort, cotton tree, and many of the compound flowers;
placed
S E M [ 135 ] s E M
•Semen placed vvlllini a winged calyx or leed-vefifel, as in f^a-
I! bious, fea-pink, dock, diofeorea, afli, maple, and elm-
Semi- treeS) logwood and woad ; or laftly, contained within a
v_”"iy fwelled ’calyx or feed veffel, as in winter eherry, cucuba-
lus, melilot, bladder-nut, fumatory, bladder fena, heart-
feed, and chick-peafe.
g. Many birds fwallow the feeds of vanelioe, juniper,
milletoe, oats, millet, and other graffes, and void them
entire. Squirrels, rats, parrots, and other animals, fuf-
fer many of the feeds which they devour to efcape, and
thus in effedt diffeminate them. Moles, ants, earthworms,
and other infedls, by ploughing up the earth, admit a
free paffage to thofe feeds which have been fcattered
upon its furface. Again, fome feeds attach themfelves
to animals, by means of crotchets, hooks, or hairs,
which are either affixed to the feeds themfelves, as in
hound’s tongue, moufe-ear, vervain, carrot, ballard-par-
.fley, fanicle, water hemp-agrimony, arBopits and verbe-
fina ; to their calyx, as in burdock, agrimony, rhexia,
Ymall wild buglofs, dock, nettle, pellitory, and feed-wort,
or to their fruit or feed-velfel, as in liquorice, enchan¬
ter’s nightffiade, crofs-wort, cleavers, French honey-
fuckle, and arrow-headed grafs.
4. The feeds which ditperfe themfelves by an elaftic
force, have that force refident either in their calyx, as
in oats, and the greater number of ferns ; in their pap¬
pus, as in centaurea crupina ; or in their capfule, as in
gerannium, herb-bennet, African fpiraea, fraxinella, horfe-
tail, balfam, Malabar nut, cucumber, elaterium, and
male balfam apple.
Semen, in the animal economy. See Physiology
.and Anatomy Index.
SEMEN SanSlum, or Santonicum. See Artemisia.
SEMENDRIAH, a town of Turkey in Europe, in
the province of Servia, with a good citadel. It is the
capital of a fangiacate, was taken by the Turks in 1690,
and is feated on the Danube, in E. Long. 21. 45. N.
Lat. 45. o.
SEMENTINiE FERINE, in antiquity, feafts held an¬
nually among the Romans, to obtain of the gods a plen¬
tiful harveft. They were celebrated in the temple of
>Tellus, where folemn facrifices were offered to Tellus
and Ceres. Thefe feafts were held about feed-time, ufu-
ally in the month of January y for, as Pvlacrobius ob-
ferves, they were moveable feafts.
SEMI, a word borrowed from the Latin, fignifyirg-
half; but only ufed in compofttion with other words, as
in the following articles.
SEMI-Arians, in ecclefiaftical hiftory, a branch of the
ancient Arlans, confifting, according to Epiphanius, of
fuch as, in appearance, condemned the errors of that
herefiarch, but yet acquiefced in fome of the principles
thereof, only palliating and hiding them under fofter
and more moderate terms. Though they feparated from
the Arian faflion (fee Arians), they could never be
brought to acknowledge that the Son was homoouftos,
that is, confubftantial, or of the fame fubftance with
the Father : they would only allow him to be homo-
oufios, that is, of a like fubftance with the Father, or
fimilar to the Father in his effence, not by nature, but
by a peculiar privilege.
The femi-arianifm of the moderns conlifts in their
maintaining that the Son v, as from ail eternity begot¬
ten by the U’z’// of the Father, contrary to the doctrine
of the orthodox, who feem to teach that the eternal ge- Semi
Deration is necejfary. Such at leaft are the refpeftive gem'rar„
opinions of Dr Clarke and Bifliop Bull. See Theology. - . —
Semicircle, in Geometry, half a circle, or that fi¬
gure comprehended between the diameter of the circle
and half its circumference.
Semicolon, in Grammar, one of the points or flops
ufed to diftinguiih the feveral members of a fentence
from each other.
The mark or charafler of the femicolon is ($), and
has its name as being of fomewhat lefs effedl than a co¬
lon j or as demanding a ffiorter paufe.
The proper ufe of the femicolon is to diftinguiffi the
conjundt members of a fentence. Now, by a conjundl
member of a fentence is meant fuch a one as contains
at leaft two fimple members.—Whenever, then, a fen¬
tence can be divided into leveral members of the fame
degree, which are again divifible into other fimple mem¬
bers, the former are to be feparated by a femicolon.
For inftance : “ If fortune bear a great fway over him,
who has nicely ftated and concerted every circumftance
of an affair ; we muft not commit every thing, without
referve, to fortune, left ffie have too great a hold of us.”
Again: Si quantum in agro locifquedefertis audacia po-
tejl, tantiwi in foro atque judiens impudentia valeret ; non
minus in caufa cederet Aulus Cceemna Sexta ALbutu im-
pudenticc, quam turn in vi facienda cejjit audacue. An
inftance in a more complex fentence we have in Cicero :
Res familiaris primum bene parta Jit, nulloque turpi
qucejlu : turn quam plurimis, niodo digms, fe utilem pree-
beat; deinde avgectur ratione, diligentia, parjimonia ;
nec libidini potius luxurieeque, quam liberalitati et beneji-
centiae parent.
But though the proper ufe of the femicolon be to
diftinguiffi conjunct members, it is not neceffary that all
the members thus divided be conjundt. for upon di¬
viding a fentence into great and equal parts, if one of
them be conjundt, all thofe other parts of the fame de¬
gree are to be diftinguiftied by a femicolon.-—-Sometimes
alfo it happens, that members that are oppofite to each
other, but relate to the fame verb, are feparated by a
femicolon. Thus Cicero : Ea? hac parte pudor, illinc
petulantia hinc jides, illinc fraudatio; June pietas, illinc
fcelus, &c. To this likewife may be referred fuch len¬
iences, where the whole going before, the parts follow :
as “ The parts of oratory are four ; invention, difpofi-
tion, elocution, and pronunciation.”
Semicubium, in Medicine, an half-bath, wherein the
patient is only placed up to the navel.
Semidiameter, half the diameter, or a right line
drawn from the centre of a circle or fphere to its cir¬
cumference : being the fame with what is otherwife
called the radius.
Semiflosculus, in Botany, a term ufed to exprefs
the flowers of the fyngenefia clafs. Thefe femiflofculi
are petals, hollow in their lower part, but in their up¬
per flat, and continued in the ffiape of a tongue.
Semitone, in Mujic. See Interval.
SEMINiiL, fomething belonging to the femen or
feed.
SEMINARY, in its primary fenfe, the ground
where any thing is fown, to be afterwards tranfplanted.
Seminary, in a figurative fenfe, is frequently ap¬
plied to places of education, -whence fcbolars are tranf¬
planted
S E M [ 136 ’] :s E M
Semination planted into life.—-In Catholic countries it is particu-
SetmLla ar^ ^or H co^e§e or where youth
giam.a* are inftrufted in the ceremonies, &c. of the facred mi-
u-niftry. Of thefe there are great numbers, j it being
ordained by the council of Trent, that there be a le-
minary belonging to each cathedral, under the direc¬
tion of the bifhop.
SEMINATION, denotes the manner or aft of
fhedding and difperfing the feeds of plants. See Se¬
men.
SEMIPELAGIANS, in EccleftaJHcal Hi/lory, a
name given to fuch as retain fome tinfture of Pelagian-
ifm. See Pelagians.
The doftrines of this feft, as well as thofe of their
predeceffors the Pelagians, have their common fource in
Pelagius, a native of Britain, of w'hom w^e have already
taken notice. He is faid to have been but a Ample
monk, and not in orders. Having gone to Rome about
the end of the fourth century, he lived there for fome
years with reputation, and was xconfidered both pious
and virtuous. Rufinus a prieft of Aquileia, having
come to Rome in the year 397, is affirmed by fome to
have been the perfon who fuggefted to Pelagius his pe¬
culiar doftrines.
In the year 400 Pelagius began to teach his opinions
at Rome, both by fpeech and writing. He wTas not the
only perfon who taught thefe doftrines, of which vTe
have elfewhere enumerated the heads. His friend and
companion Celeftius, an abler man than himfelf, main¬
tained them likewife, and wdth much more addrefs and
fubtlety. After having promulgated them in Rome,
they went into Sicily, where they lived for fome time.
Thence, in the year 411, they paffed over into Africa.
Pelagius foon after went into Paleftine, wffiilft Celeftius
remained at Carthage, and was preparing himfelf to
take the order of priefthood-, but it being foon difcovered
* Jafa/Zm, that he taught a new doftrine *, he was accufed by the
I'b- “• . deacon Paulinus in a fynod held at Carthage in 412, at
e ratia. Aure]iuS the biihop prefided. Celeftius, on being
charged by Paulinus with denying original fin, madean-
fwer, “ That in truth he doubted whether the fin of Adam
wTas tranfmitted to his pofterity.” He did not however
own that children had no need of baptifm, although this
was one of the Pelagian tenets : on the contrary, he
•wrote a little difcourfe, in which he acknowledged, that
children had need of redemption, and that they could
not obtain it without baptifm. The bifhops at the
council of Carthage condemned the doftrines of Cele¬
ftius, and excommunicated him. From this fentence he
appealed to the biihop of Rome ; but he neglefted to
purfue his appeal, and went to Ephefus, where he endea¬
voured to get himfelf ordained prieft. In the mean
time, Pelagiws having retired into Paleftine, was kindly
received by St Jerome’s enemy, John of Jerufalem.
With him he entered into an engagement to attack the
reputation of that author. St Jerome defended himfelf
from their aflault, and attacked the doftrines of Pela¬
gius f, and in this undertaking he was foon aflifted by
St Auftine. About this time, Orofius having gone
thTApobf k°m Spa^n ‘nto -Africa and thence into Paleftine, pub-
c/Orq/iut? Hlhed there the proceedings againft Celeftius at Car¬
thage, and was prevailed upon by the biihop of Jerufa¬
lem to enter into a conference with Pelagius in his pre¬
fence but the biihop having Ihown too much partiality
for Pelagius, Orofius would not acknowledge him for
4
f St >
rome'
judge, but demanded that the decifion of that affair, Sc-mipela-
which was among the Latins, might be referred to gian;- ;
judges who underllood the language. This happened v
in the year 415, at which time there were in Paleftine
two French prelates, who, being driven from their dio-
cefes, fled into that country, and having been apprized
of the opinions of Pelagius and Celeftius, drew up an
abridgement from their owm books of the errors imputed
to them L To this they joined the articles condemned t St Au-
in the fynod of Carthage, and fome others, which were^?;'f
fent from Sicily by Hilarius to St Auguftine, and then ^^and
prefented the abridgement to the biihop of Csefarea. againft the
The matter was referred to a council of 14 bilhops, at
which, -when the memoir was read, Pelagius explained
himfelf upon fome articles, and denied that he was the
author of others. He alfo difowned the propofitions
condemned at Carthage, and fome others afcribed to
Celeftius. He did not even hefitate to condemn them ;
upon which the bilhops decided, that, fince Pelagius
approved the doftrine of the church, and rejefted and
condemned what was contrary to its belief, they ac¬
knowledged him to be of the ecclefiaftical and catholic
communion.
Orofius returning to Africa, took with him the me¬
moir againft Pelagius, and prefented it to a meeting of
bilhops * held at Carthage in 416. Having read over# The Epi-
what had been done at a former meeting againft Cele-yf/^/0/Jr
ftius, they declared, that both he and Pelagius ought to Augu/line*
be anathematized if they did not publicly renounce and
condemn the errors imputed to them. The bilhops of
this meeting, and thofe of Numidia affembled the fame
year at Milivetum, wrote upon the fubjeft to Pope In¬
nocent, who approved of the judgement of the African
prelates, and declared Pelagius, Celeftius, and their fol¬
lowers excommunicated f. Innocent gave an account f Marius
of this judgement to the bilhops of the Eaft, and the Mercator s
matter feemed altogether at an end, when he died j but^”””*”'
Celeftius having been made prieft at Ephefus, and hav-
ing gone to Conftantinople, wffience he was driven by
Atticus biihop of that city, who alfo wrote againft him
to Alia and to Africa, he came to Rome in the begin¬
ning of the pontificate of Zozimus, and undertook to
purfue the appeal, which he had formerly made from
the judgement of the fynod of Carthage. Having cited
his accufer Paulinus, and offered to juftify himfelf, he
prefented a Confeflion of Faith, in which he acknowledg¬
ed that children ought to be baptized, in order to inhe¬
rit the kingdom of heaven ; but he denied that the fin
of Adam w^as tranfmitted to his children. He appeared
before the bilhops and clergymen affembled by the pope,
and declared, that he condemned all the errors with
which he had been charged. The pope delayed his
judgement for two months, and in the mean time re¬
ceived a letter and a confeffion of faith from Pelagius,
very artfully drawn up. When the time for judgement
arrived, Zozimus held a fynod, and faid, that he thought
the declarations of Pelagius and Celeftius fufficient for
their juftification. He was difpleafed at the two French
bilhops for not appearing againft them, and w rote tw’O
letters on that head, one to the bilhops of Africa, and
another in particular to Aurelius, biihop of Carthage.
The African bilhops, to the number of 214, without
regarding the judgement paffed at Rome, affembled at
Carthage, and, having confirmed their former decifions,
condemned the doftrines of the Pelagians. Tljey wrote
to
S E M r 137 ] S E M
SemipeU. to the bifiiop of Heme to acquaint him, that he had
w Aian5* been deceived by Celeftius, and difeovered to him the
■r—w equivocations of his letter and of the Confeffion of Faith
of Pelagias, fending him a memoir of the errors of
which he fliould require a diilincf and precife revocation
from the two heretic*. The pope made anfwer, that,
although his authority was fo great, that none durft
diffent from his judgement, ftill that he was willing to
communicate the matter to them, and would let it
remain in the fame (late, until a new deliberation
could take place. This letter was prefented to a coun¬
cil held at Carthage in 418, at which eight canons were
drawn up againft the Pelagian herefy. The bilhop of
Rome, in the mean time, was inclined to examine again
the affair of Celeftius, and to endeavour to draw from
him diltinft and precife anfwers according to the plan
fuggefted by the African bifhops in their memoir; but
Celeftius would not come forward, and accordingly
withdrew from Rome. From his flight the pope con¬
cluded, that he impofed upon him formerly, and that he
held the new doftrines •, and, accordingly, changing his
opinion with refpeft to him, he approved of the decrees
of the African prelates, and renewed the condemnations
of his predeceffor, Pope Innocent, againft him and Pela-
^ See the gius *. This judgement he publiftied in a letter which
SLetten of was fent to all the bithops. About the fame time an
St At/gu- was publifhed by the emperor Honorius againft
* " Pelagius and Celeftius, ordering, that they fhould be
banilhed from Rome, and that all their followers fhould
be fent into exile.
In the following year Honorius publifhed another edi£t,
by which it was ordered, that the bifhops who wTould
not fign the pope’s letter, fhould be deprived of their
churches. Accordingly, Julian the bifhop of Eclana,
who was afterwards head of the party, and feventeen
other bifhops, were cafhiered •, upon which they wrote a
letter to Rufus, bifhop of Theffalonica, and demanded
a univerfal council from the emperor, which he refufed.
Celeftius returned again to Rome, but was again expel¬
led the city ; whilft his followers, being expelled from
Italy, retired to different countries. Some of them came
over into Britain, and others went into the Eaft. At-
ticus banifhed them from Conftafttinople, and they were
alfo banifhed from Ephefus. Theodotus, bifhop of An¬
tioch, condemned them in a fynod held at Diofpolis, and
banifhed Pelagius and his followers out of Paleftine,
Whither they had returned. Julian the bifhop was
condemned in a provincial fynod of Cilicia, wThither he
had retired to Theodorus bifhop of Mopfuefta, who was
obliged to anathematize him. What became of Pela¬
gius is unknown, as hiftory gives no farther account of
him ; but Celeftius having returned to Rome, and being
driven thence by Pope Celeftin, wrent with Julian and
fome other bifhops of their party to Conftantinople,
where they endeavoured to prevail upon the emperor
Theodofius to affemble a council, inftead of which he
ordered them to leave the city. After this they joined
} Profper ^le Neftorians f, and were condemned together
in his CA/ o-vv*th them in a general souncil held at Ephefus in 43 1 j
tiide. and there now remained but a fmall number of Pela¬
gians difperfed in the Weft. Julian after having endea¬
voured feveral times to get himfelf reinftated in his bi-
fhopric, was at laft obliged to retire into Sicily, where
he died.
To the Pelagians fucceeded the Semipelagians, who
Vol. XIX. Part I.
rejected the doftrines of the former with refpeiff to orl- Sefiiipela*-.
ginal fin and the power of free will to do good %. They ®iai
owned, that man had need of the grace of God to perfe- ^ff-/arys
vere in well-doing ^ but they believed, that the begin- Letters to
ning of good will and faith did not neccflarily depend Augujluie.
upon grace j for that man, by the mere force of nature,
might defire to do good, and that God feconded that
good will by his afliftance, which depended upon liber¬
ty, and was given to all men. Befides thefe, they main¬
tained fome other peculiar tenets. The origin of fome
of their opinions is founded in this, that lome of the
books which were written by St Auguftine in his laft
years, with refpeft to the controverfies which arofe in
the ruonaftery of Adrumetum, relative to correction,
grace, and predeftination, having been carried into
Gaul, happened to give offence to feveral perfons, and
particularly to the monks of Lerins, who confideied his
doftrines hoftile to that of free wrill. This led them to
think and-to maintain, that, in order to be faved, it
was neceffary to leave to man the power of knowing and
defiring good by the force of nature, fo that the begin¬
ning might come from man. Several confiderable per¬
fons in Gaul, and even fome bithops, but particularly
the priefts, -were of this opinion. Caflian, deacon of
Conftantinople, and afterwards prieft at Marfeilles, au¬
thorized it in his conferences, and Fauftus, bilhop of
Riez, fupported it very ftrenuoufly. St Auguftine ftcod
up to oppofe this do&rine from its very firft appearance,
and was fupported by Profper and Hilarius. Pope Ce¬
leftin complained to the bilhops of Gaul, that they fuf-
fered their priefts to fpeak ill of the doClrines of St Au-
guftine j and Popes Gelafius and Hormifdas condemned
the books of Fauftus j and laft of all, the council of
Orange, held in 529, condemned particularly the prin¬
cipal tenets of the Semipelagians, and put an end at
that time to the controverfy, about 100 years after the
death of St Auguftine.—See the hiftories of Mofiieim,
Dupin and Fleury, &c. &c.
The Semipelagians were very numefous j and their
doftrines, though varioufly explained, were received in
many of the monaftic fchools in Gaul, whence they
fpread themfelves far and wide through Europe. With
refpeCt to the Greeks and other Chriltians of the Eaft,
wTe may remark, that they had adopted the Semipelagian
tenets, even before they were promulgated in Gaul by
Caflian and Fauftus.
After the period, however, at wh'ch the Semipelagian
doCtrines wrere condemned in the council of Orange, we
find but little notice taken of this feCt by hiltorians.
Although its tenets w’ere maintained by a few in the
fucceeding centuries, the feCt could boaft of no eminent
leaders, and funk into obfeurity. In the beginning, in¬
deed, of the reformation, fome of the Pelagian tenets
wrere again brought into circulation. Every one is ac¬
quainted with the hoftility of Luther to the doClrine of
free will, who went fo far into the oppofite extreme as
to entitle one of his works againft the celebrated Erafc
mus on this fubjeCl, “ De Servo Arbitrio” But not-
withftanding that Luther was their leader, this doCtrine
of his was not adopted by fome of the moft eminent of
the reformers. His learned friend, the mild and w'orthy
MelanCthon, although he at firft (either from not hav¬
ing fufficiently confidered the fubjeCt, or becaufe this
doftrine wras fo unpalatable to the great body of the re¬
formers on -account of the authority of Luther), joined
6 with
S E M [I
Scmipela- vviih Luther in Iris hoftility to tire do£lriue of free will,
w glan^ l'ar as 1:0 fay> that free will could have no effeft, un-
”v der the influence of grace, fhortly after changed his
opinion fo as to run into the oppofite extreme. For al¬
though Luther at his outfet had affirmed, that tire pre-
fcience of God annihilated free will in all his creatures,
he was lo foftened down into moderation at the time of
the drawing up of the famous Confeffion of Augiburg,
as to allow Melandfhon, who compofed it, to infert
thefe words, “ that it was neceffary to allow free-will
to all who poflefled the ufe of reafon, not however in
luch things as regarded God, which they could not
commence, or at Icajl which they could not complete,
without his affiifance and grace, but in the affairs, or
works, of the prelent life folely, and in or der to perform
*b«T'w ^ tliC^r dut7 towards fociety In this pallage two
tide, and tru^ls are clearly admitted : i. That there is free-w ill
Melanc- in man •, and 2. That of itfelf it has no efficacy in fuch
then's Ape- w'orks as are purely Chriflian or religious. Flat although
lcSy- this be evident, and although it would feem as if he at¬
tributed the efficacy of religious woiks folely to the
grace of God, yet the reilriblirig words “ at leajlj'1
fhow, that he was of opinion, that free-will, by its ow n
natural force and efficacy, though it could not complete,
could at leajl commence, Chriftian or religious works,
without the afiutance of grace. To fuch of our readers
as are acquainted with eccleiiaftical hiflory, it is unne-
ceffary to remark, that this wTas one of the leading te¬
nets of the Semipelagians. But Meiandlhon did not
flop here. It is true, that, in order to keep well with
the reformers, he was obliged, in thofe public infiru-
ments which he drew up, to infmuate rather than avow
his partiality for the doftrine of free-will, the exercife
of which, we fee, he confined in the Confeffion of Augf-
fiurg lo fuch aclions merely as regarded civil fife and
our duties to fociety. In the Saxon Confeffion of Faith,
hoAvever, he proceeds a ftep farther, and fays “ that the
will is free •, that God neither wifhes for, nor approves,
nor co-operates in the produftion of fin j but that the
free-will of man and of the devils is the true caufe of
their fin and of their fall.” Many no doubt will be of
opinion, that Melanclhon merits praife for having thus
correfted Luther, and for having more clearly exprefl’ed
his own opinion, than he had done in the Confeffion of
Augfburg, lie even proceeds farther, and extends the
exercife of free-will to religious or Chriftian works.
For after having explained in the Saxon Confeffion of
iaith the nature of free-will, and the manner in winch
it makes a choice, and having alfo fhown, that it is not
of ittelf fufficient in thefe works, or aflions, which re¬
gard a future life, he affirms twice “ that the will, even
after having received the influence of the Holy Spirit,
does not remain idle,” that is to fay, it is not merely
paffive under the influence of grace, but can reject it,
or co-operate with it, at pleafute. Neceffity, it is true,
obliged him to exprefs his opinion rather obfeurely.
But what he infinuates only in thefe lad quoted wrords,
is clearly and fully exprtfied in one of his letters to
Calvin. “ I had, fays he, a friend who, in reafoning
upon predeflination, believed equally the two following
things 5 namely, that every thing happens smongft men
as it is ordained by Providence, but that there is, ne-
verthelefs, a contingency in affions or in events. He
confeffed, however, that he was unable to reconcile
thefe two things. For my part, (continues Melanc-
s? ] S E M
thon), who am of opinion, that God neither withes for, SL-nv> te¬
nor is the caufe of fin, I acknowledge this contingency £iiUS-
in the feeblenefs of our judgement, in order that the ig- v—
norant may confefs, that David fell of himfelf, and vo¬
luntarily, into fin 5 that he had it in his power to pre-
ferve the grace of the Holy Spirit which lie had within
him, and that in this combat, or trial, it is necefiary to
acknowledge fome exercii’e or ablion of the will *”. * See Cal-
This opinion he confirms and illulirates by a paffage
from St Bafil, where he fays, “ Have but the will, oxtL>s’
the inclination, and God is with you.” By which
wmrds Melanfthon feems to infinuate, that the will is
not only aftive in the works of religion, but even be¬
gins them without grace. This, however, was not the
meaning of St Bafil, as is evident from feveral other
parts of his writings ; but that it wras the opinion of
Melanfthon appears fully from this paffage, as well as
from that which we have cited from the Confeffion of
.Augfburg, in w'hich he infinuates, that the error is not
in laying, that, the will can of itlelf commence, but in
thinking, that it can without grace finiffi or complete,
religious or Chriftian works. Thus it appears, that
he confidered the will capable of rejecting the influence
of grace, fince he declares, that David could preferve
the Holy Spirit when fie lolt it, as well as he could lole
rt when he kept it within him. But although this was
his decided opinion, he durft not avow it fully in the
Saxon Confeffion of Faith, but w'as obliged to content
himfelf with infinuating it gently in thefe words, “ The
wall, even after receiving the grace of the Floly Spirit,
is not idle or without action.” All this precaution,
however, was infufficient to fave Melanflhon from cen-
fure. Francowitz, better known by the name of Illyri-
cus, being jealous of him and his enemy, by his influ¬
ence with bis party procured the condemnation of thefe
words of the Saxon Confeffion, and of the paflage from
St Bafil, at two fynods held by the Reformers ; at the
fame time, that one party of the Lutherans were un¬
willing to adopt Melancflion’s opinion, “ that the will
is not paffive, when under the influence of grace,” we
are at a lofs to think how they could deny it, fince they
almoft unanimoufly confefs, that a perfan under the in¬
fluence of grace may vejeft and lofe it. This opinion
.is avowed in the Confeffion of Augfburg and in Me-
lanfthon’s Apology. It was even, long after that, de¬
cided upon anew, inculcated ftrongly in their book of
Concord, and was brought frequently againft them by
their opponents as a proof of inconfiftency and contra-
didfion.
Thefe are not the only inflances in which the Luthe¬
rans were charged with Semipelagian principles. One
of the ableft and the mofc learned of their opponents, we
cannot help thinking, had in more than one inftance
made good the charge againft them. To prove this we
need only refer to the remarks that have been made on
the eight celebrated propofitions in the third book of
Concord, relative to the co-operation of the will with
grace. According to the firft feven of thefe propofi¬
tions, an attentive liftening to the preaching of the
word of God produceth grace ; and according to the
fifth, any man, even a libertine or an infidel, is free, or
has it in his power to liften attentively to the preaching
of the word of God. He has it then in his power to
give to himfelf that which to him is produ£five of grace,
and may thus be the foie author of his own converfion
or
S E M t I
Semipela- or regeneration. In tlie eiglitli propoiition it is affinn-
gians, {.hat we are not permitted to doubt, but that the
Semiramis. grace 0f t-]ie Holy Spirit, even though it may not be
"v felt, does accompany an attentive hearing of the word
of God ; and to do away every doubt about the fpecies
of attention which they mean, we muft obferve, that
they fpeak of attention in as much as it precedes the
grace of the Holy Spirit, and of that attention which,
in confequence of its dependence on free-will, we have
it in our power to bellow upon the word or not, juft as
we pleafe. It is the exercife of this free attention which
they fay operates grace. But here it w’ould feem, that
they w’ere in extremes •, for, as they faid upon one hand,
that, when the Holy Spirit begins to move us, we aCl
not at all; fo they maintained on the other, that this
operation of the Holy Spirit, which converts us without
any co-operation on our part, is neceffarily attendant
upon an aft of our walls, in which the Holy Spirit has
no Hi a re, and in which our liberty afts purely by its na¬
tural force or power. Such of our readers as are anxious
to examine the progrefs of the Pelagian and Semipela¬
gian principles after the dawn of the Reformation, we
muft refer to the works of the principal reformers atid
to thofe of their adverfaries, as well as to the different
writers upon ecclefiaftical hiftory.
SEMIRAMIS, in fabulous hiftory, a celebrated queen
of Alfyria, daughter of the goddefs Derceto, by a young
Aflyrian. She wras expofed in a defert; but her life
was preferved by doves for one whole year, till Simmas,
one of the Ihepherds of Ninus, found her and brought
her up as his own child. Semiramis, when grown up,
married Menones, the governor of Nineveh, and accom¬
panied him to the fiege of Baftria; where, by her ad¬
vice and prudent direftions, ftie haftened the king’s ope¬
rations, and took the city. Thefe eminent fervices, to¬
gether with her uncommon beauty, endeared her to Ni¬
nus. The monarch alked her of her hulband, and offer¬
ed him his daughter Sofana in her Head 5 but Menones,
who tenderly loved Semiramis, refufed } and when Ni¬
nus had added threats to entreaties, he hanged himfelf.
No fooner was Menones dead, than Semiramis, wftiowas
of an afpiring foul, married Ninus, by whom fhe had a
fon called Ninyas. Ninus vras fo fond of Semiramis, that
at her requeft he refigned the crown, and commanded
her to be proclaimed queen and foie emprefs of Affyria.
Of this, however, he had caufe to repent : Semiramis
put him to death, the better to eftahlifh herfelf on the
throne •, and when fhe had no enemies to fear at home,
ftie began to repair the capital of her empire, arid by
her means Babylon became the moft fuperb and mag¬
nificent city in the world. She vifited every part of
her dominions, and left everywhere immortal monuments
of her greatnefs and benevolence. To render the roads
paffable and communication eafy, fhe hollowed moun¬
tains and filled up valleys, and water was conveyed at a
great expence by large and convenient aquedufts to
barren deferts and unfruitful plains. She was not lefs
diftinguiftied as a warrior : Many of the neighbouring
nations were conquered ; and when Semiramis was once
told as ftie was dreffmg her hair, that Babylon had re¬
volted, ftie left her toilette with precipitation, and though
only half drefled, (lie refufed to have the reft of her
head adorned before the fedition was quelled and tran¬
quillity re-eftablifhed. Semiramis has been accufed of
Kcentioafnefs j and feme authors have obferved that fhe
39 ] § E N
regularly called the fliongefl and ftoutefl men in hex-
army to her arms, and afterwards put them to deatn,
that they might not be living witneffes of her incontin¬
ence. Her paflion for her ion was alfo unnatural 5 and
it was this criminal propensity which induced Ninyas to
deftroy his mother with his own hands. Some fay that
Semiramis was changed into a dove after death, and re¬
ceived immortal honours in Alfyria. It is fuppoled that
fhe lived about 11 centuries before the Chnftian era,
and that fixe died in the 62d year of her age and the
25th of her reign. Many fabulous reports have been pro¬
pagated about Semiramis, and lome have declared that
for fome time ftie difguifed herfelf and palled for her fon
Ninyas. Lernpriere1 s Bibliotheca Clajjica.
SEMPERV1VUM, House leek, a genus of plants
belonging to the clafs dodecandria } and in the natural
method ranking under the 13th order, SucculenUv. See
Botany Index.
SEN AAR, or Sennaar. See SennAaR.
SENATE, in general, is an affembly or council of
fenators \ that is, of the principal inhabitants of a ftate,
who have a fhare in the government.
The fenate of ancient Rome is of all others the moft
celebrated. It exercifed no contentious jurifdxftion 3
but appointed judges, either from among the lenators
or knights, to determine proceffes : it alfo appointed go¬
vernors of provinces, and difpofed of the revenues of the
commonwealth, &c. Yet did not the whole iovereign
power refide in the fenate, lince it couxd not elect ma-
giftrates, make laws, or decide of war and peace 3 in
all which cafes the fenate was obliged to confult tlie
people.
The fenate, when firft inftituted by Romulus, con¬
fided of xoo members 3 to whom he afterwards added
the fame number when the Sabines had migrated to
Rome. Tarquin the ancient made the fenate confilt of
300, and this number remained fixed for a long time 3
but afterwards it lluftuated greatly, and was increafed firit
to 700, and afterwards to 900 by Julius Ciefar, who filled
the fenate with men of every rank and order. Under
Auguftus the fenators amounted to 1000, but this num¬
ber was reduced, and fixed to 600. ihe place of a le-
nator was always beftowed upon merit: the monarchs
had the privilege of choofing the members; and after
the expulfion of the Tarquins, it was one of the rights
of the confuls, till the eleftion of the cenfors, who from
their office feemed molt capable of making choice of
men whofe charafter was irreproachable, whole morals
were pure, and relations honourable. Only particular
families were admitted into the fenate 3 and when the
plebeians were permitted to fiiare the honours of the ftate,
it was then required that they fhould be born of free
citizens. It was alfo required that the candidates fhould
be knights before their admiffion into the fenate. They
were to be above the age of 25, and to have previoufly
paffed through the inferior offices of quaeftor, tribune of
the people, edile, pretor, and ccnful.
The fenate always met of courfe on the ift of Janua¬
ry, for the inauguration of the new confuls 3 and in all
months, univerfally, there were three days, viz. the ka¬
lends, nones, and ides, on which it regularly met: but
it always met on extraordinary occafions, when called
together by conful, tribune, or diftator.
To render their decrees valid and authentic, a cer¬
tain number of members was requifite, and fuch as
S Z . were
SEN [ Mo ] S E N
were abfent without fome proper caufe were always
lined. In the reign of Auguftus, 400 fenators were
requilite to make a fenate. Nothing was tranfadled be¬
fore funrife or after funfet. In their office the fena¬
tors were the guardians of religion, they difpofed of the
provinces as they pleafed, they prorogued the affem-
blies of the people, they appointed tharikfgivings, no¬
minated their ambaffadors, diftributed the public mo¬
ney, and in ffiort had the management of every thing
political or civil in the republic, except the creating of
magiiirates, the enafling of laws, and the declaration
of war or peace, which were confined to the affemblies
of the people.
SENATOR, in general, denotes a member of fome
fenate.
The dignity of a Roman fenator could not be fup-
ported without the poffeffion of 80,000 feiferces, or
about 7000I. Englilh money j and therefore fuch as
fquandered away their money, and whofe fortune was
reduced below this fum, were generally ftruck out of
the lilt of 1'enators. This regulation was not made in
the firft ages of the republic, when the Romans boalted
of their poverty. The fenators were not permitted to
be of any trade or profeffion. They were diltinguilhed
from the reft of the people by their drefs; they wore
the laticlave, half-boots of a black colour, with a cref-
cent or filver buckle in the form of a C ; but this laft
honour was confined only to the defendants of thofe
hundred fenators who had been elefted by Romulus, as
the letter C feems to imply. See the preceding ar¬
ticle.
Among us, fenator is a member of parliament. In
the lawTs of King Edward the Confeflbr, we are told
that the Britons called thofe fenators whom the Saxons
called afterwards aldermen and borougli-mafers ; though
not for their age, but their wifdom ; for fome of them
were young men, but very well Ikilled in the laws.
Kenulph king of the Mercians granted a charter, which
ran thus, viz. Confillo et confenfu epifeoporum et fenato-
lum gentis face largitus fait diBo monajlerio, &c.
In Scotland, the lords of feflion are called fenators of
the college of juftice.
SENATUS auctoritas. See the next article.
SENATUS-Confultum, which made part of the Ro¬
man law. When any public matter was introduced
into the fenate, which was always called referre ad fe-
natum, any fenator whofe opinion was alked, was per¬
mitted to fpeak upon it as long as he pleafed, and on
that account it was often ufual for the fenators to pro-
traft their fpeeches till it was too late to determine.
When the queftion was put, they pafled to the fide of
khat fpeaker whofe opinion they approved, and a majo¬
rity of votes was eafily collefted, without the trouble
of counting the numbers. "When the majority was
known, the matter was determined, and a fenatus conful-
tum was immediately written by the clerks of the houfe,
at the feet of the chief magiftrates, and it was figned
by all the principal members of the houfe. When
there was not a fufficient number of members to make
a fenate, the decifion was called fenatus auBoritas, but it
was of no force if it did not afterwards pafs into a fena-
tus confultum.
The fenatus confnlta were at firft left in the cuftody
of the kings, and afterward of the confuls, who could
foppiefs or preferve them 5 but about the year of Rome
304, they were always depofited in the temple of Ce- Seneca,
res, and afterwards in the treafury, by the ediles of the —y-—’
people.
SENECA, Lucius Annjeus, a Stoic philolbpher,
was born at Corduba in Spain, about the beginning of
the Chriftian era, of an equeftvian family, which had
probably been tranfplanted thither in a colony from
Rome. He was the fecond fon of Marcus Annseus Se¬
neca, commonly called the rhetorician, whofe remains
are printed under the title of Suaforice et Controverfee,
cum Declamationum Excerpt is; and his youngeft bro¬
ther Annaeus Mela (for there were three of them) had
the honour of being lather to the poet Lucan. He was
removed to Rome, together with his father and the reft
of his family, while he was yet in his infancy. There
he was educated in the mort liberal manner, and under
the heft matters. He learned eloquence from his fa¬
ther ; but his genius rather leading him to philofophy,
he put himfelf under the ftoics Attains, Sotion, and
Papirius Fabianus ; men famous in their wry, and of
wffiom he has made honourable mention in his writings.
It is probable, too, that he travelled when he was young,,
lince we find him, in feveral parts of his wmrks, parti¬
cularly in his ^ucef tones Natura/es, making very exa£t
and curious obfervations upon Egypt and the Nile.—-
But this, though entirely agreeable to his own humour,
did not at all correfpond with that fcheme or plan of
life which his father had drawn out for him 5 uffio,
therefore, forced him to the bar, and put him upon foli-
citing for public employments •, fo that he afterwards be¬
came qureftor, praetor, and, as Lipfius will have it, even
conful.
In the firft year of the reign of Claudius, when Ju¬
lia the daughter of Germanicus was accufed of adul¬
tery by Mefialina, and baniffied, Seneca was baniffied
too, being charged as one of the adulterers. Corfica
was the feat of his exile, where he lived eight years 'y
“ happy in the midft of thofe things which ufually
make other people miferable j” inter eas res beatus, quee
folent miferos facere : and here he w7rote his books
of confolation, addrefl'ed to his mother Helvia, and to
his friend Polybius, and perhaps fome of thofe trage¬
dies which go under his name ; for he fays, modo fe
levioribus fudiis ibi obleBaJfe. Agrippina being mar¬
ried to Claudius, upon the death of Meffalina, ffie pre¬
vailed with the emperor to recal Seneca from banith-
ment ; and afterwards procured him to be tutor to her
fon Nero, whom ffie defigned for the empire. Africa-
nus Burrhus, a praetorian praefed, was joined with him.
in this important charge : and thefe two preceptors, who
were entrufted with equal authority, had each his refpec-
tive department. By the bounty and generolity of his
royal pupil, Seneca acquired that prodigious wealth
which rendered him in a manner equal to kings. His
houfes and walks were the moft magnificent in Rome..
His villas were innumerable : and he had immenfe fums
of money placed out at intereft in almoft every part of
the world. The hiftoriap Dio reports him to have had
250,0001. fterling at intereft in Britain alone $ and rec¬
kons his calling it in all at a fum, a» one of the caufes.
of a war with that nation.
All this ivealth, however, together with the luxury
and effeminacy of a court, does not appear to have had
any ill effect upon the temper and difpofition of Se¬
neca, He continued abftexnious, exa£t in his manners*
and
'SEN [
Seneca, and, above all, free from the vices fo commonly preva-
■—lent in fuch places, flattery and ambition. “ I had ra¬
ther (laid he to Nero) offend you by fpeaking the truth,
than pleafe you by lying and flattery : tiialuenm vern
offenjere, cjuam placerc adulando.'1'1 How well he ac¬
quitted himfelf in quality of preceptor to his prince, may
be known from the live find years of Nero's reign, which
have always been confidered as a perfeit pattern of good
government; and if that emperor had but been as ob-
fervant of his mafter through the whole courle of it, as
he was at the beginning, he would have been the de¬
light, and not, as he afterwards proved, the curie and
detefiation of mankind. But when Poppaea and Ti-
gellinus had got the command of Ins humour, and hur¬
ried him into the mod extravagant and abominable vices,
he foon grew weary of his mailer, whole life mult indeed
have been a conllant rebuke to him. Seneca, percei¬
ving that his favour declined at court, and that he had
many accufers about the prince, who were perpetually
whilpering in his ear the great riches ol Seneca, his
magnificent houfes and fine gardens, and what a favou¬
rite through means of thefe he wTas grown with the peo¬
ple, made an offer of them all to Nero. Nero refufed
to accept them : which, however, did not hinder Seneca
from changing his way of life ; for, as I'acitus relates,
he “ kept no more levees, declined the ufual civilities
which had been paid to him, and, under a pretence of
indifpofition, or fome engagement or other, avoided as
much as poflible appearing in public.”
Nero, in the mean time, who, as it is fuppofed, had
difpatched Burrhus by poifon, could not be eafy till
he had rid himlelf of Seneca alfo: For Burrhus w7as
the manager of his military concerns, and Seneca con¬
duced his civil affairs. Accordingly, he attempted, by
means of Cleonicus, a freedman of Seneca, to take him off
by poifon ; but this not fucceeding, he ordered him to be
put to death, upon an information that he wfas privy to Fi¬
fe’s confpiracy againlt his perfon. Not that he had any real
proof of Seneca’s being concerned in this plot, but only
that he w’as glad to lay hold of any pretence for deftroy-
ing him He left Seneca, hoxvever, at liberty to choofe
his manner of dying ; who caufed his veins to be opened
immediately. His wife Paulina, who was very young in
comparifon of himfelf, had yet the refolution and affeCion
to bear him company, and thereupon ordered her veins
to be opened at the fame time; but as Nero was not
willing to make his cruelty more odious and infupport-
able than there feemed occafion for, he gave orders to
have her death prevented : upon which her wounds were
bound up, and the blood flopped, in juft time enough
to fave her ; though, as Tacitus fays, ftie looked fo mi-
ferably pale and wan all her life after, that it was eafy
to read the lofs of her blood and fpirits in her counte¬
nance. In the mean time, Seneca,, finding his death
flow and lingering, defired Statius Annaeus his phyfi-
cian to give him a dofe of poifon, which had been pre*
pared fome time before in cafe it fliould-be wranted 5 but
this not having its ufual effeCy he was carried to a hot
bath, where he was at length ftifled with the fleams.
He died, as Lipfius conjediures, in the 63d or 64th
year of his age, and in about the loth or nth of Ne¬
ro’s reign. Tacitus, on mentioning his death, obferves,
that, as he entered the bath, he took of the water, and
with it fprinkled fome of his neareft domeftics, faying*
“ That he offered thofe libations to Jupiter the Deli¬
verer.” Thefe words are an evident proof that Seneca
141 1 s E . N.
was not a Chriftian, as fome have imagined him to Have
been } and that the 13 epiftles from Seneca to St Paul,
and from St Paul to Seneca, are fuppofititious pieces. _
His philofophical works are well known.—They confift
of 124 epijiles and diftindt treatifes j and, except his
books of phyfical queflions, are chiefly of the moral kind,,
treating of anger, confolation, providence, tranquillity
of mind, conflancy, clemency, the fliortnels of life, a
happy life, retirement, benefits. He has been juftly
cenlured by Quintilian and other critics, as one of the
firlt corrupters of the Roman ftyle j but his works are
highly valuable, on account of the vaft erudition which
they difeover, and the beautiful moral fentiments which
they contain.
SENECIO, Groundsel •, a genus of plants belong¬
ing to the clals fyngenefia, and to the order ol polyga-
mia fuperflua j and in the natural method ranking under
the 49th order, Compojitce. See Botany Index.
SENEGAL, a part of Negroland in Africa, the
boundaries of which are not known. See Guinea.
IJle of Senegal, fometimes called Saint Louis, is a
fmall ifland in the mouth of the river Senegal, and ac¬
cording to Maikelyne’s tables is fituated in N. Lat. 15.-
53. VV. Long. 16. 31. The Dutch were the firft Eu¬
ropeans who fettled at Senegal j but their colony was
expelled by the French in 1687. It was taken by the
Englilh in 1692 j and retaken by the French the year
following. It was a fecond time taken pofleflion of by
the Englilh in 1758 j but in 1779 the French recover¬
ed it, and it was ceded by the Britilh crown by the
treaty of 1783.
The bell account of this ifland which we have feen,
is given in the interefting voyage of M. Saugnier to the.
coaft of Africa. This adventurer vifited Senegal in
June 1785..
“ The ifland (fays he), properly fpeaking, is only a
bank of fand in the middle of the river. It is 1000
geometrical paces long, and about 60 in its greatell
width j is almoft on a level with the river and with the
fea, being defended from the latter by Barbary points
which is of greater elevation than the colony. Ihe
eaftern branch of the river is the more confiderable oT
the two, being about 400 toifes acrofs y the weitern
branch is only from 50 to 200 toifes wide. The ifle
conlifts entirely of burning lands, on the barren lurface
of which you fometimes meet with feattered flints.,'
thrown out among their ballall by veffels coming from-
Goree, or with the ruins of buildings formerly eredled
by Europeans. There is fcarcely fuch a thing as a-
garden upon the ifland j European feeds in general not
thriving, here. It is not furprifing that the loil is lo un--
productive j for the air is ftrongly impregnated with lea-
fait, which pervades every thing, and confumes even
iron in a very Ihort fpace of time. The heats are excef-
five, and rendered ftill more infapportable by-the reflec¬
tion of the fand $ fo that from ten in the morning until
four in the afternoon it is almoft impoflible to do any-
work. During the months of January,, lebruary^-r
March, and April, the heats are moderated j but in
Auguft and the following months they become fo op-
prelfive as even to affeCt the natives themfelves. What
effeCt then mnft they have upon the Europeans,^ fudden-
ly tranfported into this burning: climate ? The nights are
a little lefs fultryy not always, however, but only when
the fea-breeze fets in. It is then that the inhabitantsu
of the colony breathe a frelher air, for which they have ;
be ear.
Seneca
Senegal,
I
Senega!.
SEN [ 14
been longing the whole of the day • but this air in our
cl mate would feem a burning vapour. The nights are
neverthelefs troublefome, notwithftanding the comforts
or the iea-breeze. i. he inftant the iun is let, we are
availed by an infinity of gnats, which are called mufqui-
tos; their flings are very painful, and their multitudes
incredible. The inhabitants find but a poor defence in
their gauze-curtains. For my own part, accufiomed as
I had been to live among the Moors, I was but little
annoyed by thefe infeas. Being half a favage, I felt
no defire to recommend myfelf to the favourable regard
cf the fair fex, and I was therefore under no neceflity of
taking care of my perfon. In imitation of my former
maflers, I fmeared myfelf with butter, and this expedi¬
ent preferved me at all times from thefe impertinent
ftingers, thefe fpiteful enemies to the repofe of the hu¬
man kind.
“ M the profpea of Senegal is not agreeable to the
eye, much lefs are its environs, which are covered over
only with land, and overrun with mangoes. It may be
laid, without exaggeration, that there is not a more for¬
lorn fituation to be found on the face of the inhabited
globe, or a place in which the common neceffaries of
life are procured with greater difficulties. Water, that
indifpenfable aliment of man, is here not potable. Wells
are dug in the fand to the depth of five or fix feet, and
water is obtained by thefe means 5 but whatever pains
are taken to frefhen it, it ever retains a brackilh tafte.
I have diflilled this water myfelf, and obferved that it
always had a difagreeable favour, which cannot fail to
tie hurtful to the health : it is true, that when the river
is high, its ftreams are frefli, but the water is only the
more dangerous. It proves the caufe of moft of thofe
maladies which carry off the Europeans fo rapidly, that
at the end of every three years the colony has a freffi
let or inhabitants. Ihe blacks themfelves, although ac-
cuftomed to the climate, are not in this feafon free from
difeafe.”
i he fort of St Louis is a quadrangle, and has two
baftions of confiderable ftrength ; but the greateft fecu-
rity of the fort is its natural fituation. The cannon of
ihe fort are numerous, and the arfenal well fupplied
with fmall arms and floras. Befides this fort the
1‘rench had no other upon the river, except Fort St
jofeph, which hands about four leagues below the ca-
iaraft at Govina, though they had a few faftories in dif¬
ferent parts.
The principal commodity of this country is that of
gum Senegal (fee GUM-Senegal), which is a valuable
branch of commerce, as it is ufed in many arts and ma-
nufadtures, particularly by the painters in water-colours,
the filk weavers, and dyers.
The French import from the river Senegal not only
gum-arabic, but elephants teeth, hides, bees-wax, gold-
dufl, cotton, oflrich feathers, ambergris, indigo, and
civet.
Notwithftanding the barrennefs of the fpot, Senegal
contains more than 6000 negroes, including the cap¬
tives of the Tapades, or negroes born of the black in¬
habitants of the country. They are never put up to
fale, unlefs convi&ed of fome crime. Their huts, con-
ftrudfed in the form of bee-hives, and fupported upon
lour flakes, furround the habitations of the negro inha¬
bitants. The entire height of thofe huts may rife to
about 12 feet, the width in every direflion is commonly
2
2 ] SEN
from 10 to 12. 'The beds are compofed of hurdles laid Senegal.
upon crofs-bars, fupported by forked flakes at the height' V—
of about a foot from the ground, flere the Haves ileep
promilcuoully, men, women, girls, and boys. A fire
is made in the middle of the hut, which is filled with
fmoke, fufficient to ftifle any man but a negro.
x he men are tall, and the women are accounted the
handfomeft negreffes or all Africa. The Senegalians
may be confidered as the moft courageous people of that
part of the world, without even excepting the Moors,
I heir courage, however, is more nearly allied to teme¬
rity than to bravery. In the courfe of the voyage to
Galam, they meet the greateft dangers with gaiety and
long •, they dread neither mulket nor cannon, and are
equally fearlefs of the cayman or Crocodile. Should one
of their companions be killed, and devoured by thefe
animals before their face, they are not deterred from
plunging into the water, if the working of the (hip re¬
quire it. Thefe excellent qualifications which diftinguifh
them, and on which they value themfelves fo much, do
not, however, preferve them from the common conta¬
gion of the country, which inclines them all to rapine.
They are emulous to furpafs one another in all the arts
of over-reaching and fraud. The conduft of the Eu¬
ropeans has, no doubt, encouraged thefe vices as much
as the leflbns of the marabous, who inculcate the duty
of plundering the Chriftians to the utmoft of their
power.
The Yolof negroes of Senegal are either Chriftians
or Mahometans, or rather one and the other, or with
more truth neither ; religion being a matter of indifi'er-
ence to them. Thofe on the continent are of the fame
way of thinking, and their religious practices are kept
up only for the fake of form. A bar of iron, a few
beads, will make them change their opinion at will. By
fuch means are they afted upon ; a fufficient proof of
their want of all religious principle. The marabous, or
priefts, and the men of their law, are no better than the
reft. “ I have examined the charafter of feveral of this
order of men (fays M. Saugnier), and even among the
nation of the Poules, who are confidered as great fana¬
tics, I difeovered that they were only publicly attached
to their opinions. ‘ This white man (fay they) does fo ;
he is better informed than I, and why fhould not I imi¬
tate his example i’'” This way of reafoning is common to
all that traft of country.
I he colony of Senegal is furrounded with iflands,
which, on account of the proximity of the fea, are all
more unhealthy than that on which the town is built.
They are full of Handing pools, that, when dried up by
the fun, exhale a putrid vapour that carries mortality
with it, and defolates thefe iflands. It is doubtlefs the
fame caufe that takes off fo many of ihe French at Sene¬
gal during the dangerous feafon of the year. This alfo
may be in part occafioned by the bad quality of the. wa¬
ter, which flows from the ponds in the neighbourhood
of the colony, and though incorporated with that of the
river, comes down little agitated by the current, and is
eafily diftinguilhed by a vapidnefs of tafte. This parti¬
cular is, in my opinion, effentially worthy of notice, and
if properly attended to by our medical men, might be¬
come the means of preferving many lives.
SENEGJL-Rtver, fee Nicer. As fo little is known
refpefting this river, which is one of the greateft in
Africa, any additional information mult be interefting.
We
S E N f 143 1 SEN
We fhall therefore prefent our readers witH the account
contained in the communications prefented to the Affo-
ciation for promoting the difcovery of the Interior
Parts of Africa, which, as far as we know, is the lateft
and moft authentic.
The river known to Europeans by the name of Niger
or Senegal runs on the fouth of the kingdom of Cafhna,
in its courfe towards Tombuftou ; and if the report
which Ben Alii heard in that town may be credited, it
is afterwards loft in the fands on the fouth of the coun¬
try of Tombudtou. In the map (a), only the known
part of its courfe is marked by a line j and the fuppofl-
titious part by dots. It may be proper to obferve, that
the Africans have two names for this river \ that is,
Neel il Abeed, or river of the Negroes ; and Neel il Ki-
heer, or the great river. They alto term the Nile (that
is the E-jyplian river) Neel Shetn; fo that the term
Neel, from whence our Nile, is nothing more than the
appellative of river ; like Ganges, or Sinde.
Of this river the riie and termination are unknown,
but the courfe is from eaft to weft. So great is its ra¬
pidity, that, no veffel can afeend its ftrearn ; and fuch
is the want of fkill, or fuch the abfence of commercial
inducements among the nations who inhabit its borders,
that even with the current, neither veflels nor boats are
feen to navigate. In one place, indeed, the traveller
ftuds accommodations for the paftage of himfelf and or
his goods } but even there, though the ferrymen, by
the indulgence of the fultan of Cafhna, are exempted
from all taxes, the boat which conveys the merchandife
is nothing more than an ill-conftn.nfted raft ; for the
planks are faftened to the timbers with ropes, and the
feams are clofed both within and without by a plafter of
tough clay, of which a large provifton is always carried
on the raft, for the purpofe of excluding the ftream
wherever its entrance is obferved.
The depth of the river at the place of paflage, which
is more than a hundred miles to the fouth of the city of
Cafhna, the capital of the empire of that name, is efti-
mated at 23 or 24 feet Englilh. Its depth is from 10
to 1 2 peeks, each of which is 27 inches.
Its width is fuch, that even at the illand of Gongoo,
where the ferrymen refide, the found of the loudeft voice
from the northern ftiore is fcarcely heard ; and at Tom-
fcuflou, where the name of Gnewa, or black, is given
to the ftream, the width is deferibed as being that of
the Thames at Weftminfter. In the rainy feafon it
fwells above its banks, and not only floods the adja¬
cent lands, but often fweeps before it the cattle and
cottages of the fhort-ftghted or too confident inhabi¬
tants.
That the people who live in the neighbourhood of
the Niger fliould refufe to profit by its navigation, may
:uftly furprife the traveller: but much greater is his
uftonilhment, when he finds that even the food which
the bounty of the ftream would give, is ufelefsly offered
to their acceptance *, for fuch is the rvant of fkill, or
furh the fettled dillike of the people to this fort of pro-
vifion, that the fifh with which the river abounds are
left in undifturbed poffeftion of its waters.
SENE it A, or Senega, Rattlefnake-root-, Mill-wort.
See Poly gala, Botany and Materia Medica
Index.
SENESCHAL, QSenefchallus'), derived from the
German fein, “ a houfe or place,” and fcale, “ an of¬
ficer,” is a fteward, and fignifies one who has the dif-
penfing of juftice in fome particular cafes: As the high
lenefchal or fteward of England } fenefchal de la hotel
de rei, “ fteward of the king’s houfehold, fenefchal, or
fteward of courts, &c.” Co. Lit.6\. Crake's Jurifd.
102. Kitch. 83. See Steward.
SENN, a fort of itinerant cow-keeper in Switzerland,
particularly in the canton of Appenzeil Theie men
do not raife as much hay as is requihte for their cattle
during the winter, and fome of them have no grafs
lands. To fupply this defect, they employ agents
throughout the canton, whofe province it is to inform
them where good hay may be obtained, when the fenn,
who is in want of fodder, agrees with the more opulent
farmers for the winter, to whom he fucceflively drives
his cattle when they return from the grafs, in conle-
quence of which he often vifits five different places du¬
ring the winter. The perfon who fells the hay provides
the fenn with {tabling for his beafts, and with board
and lodgings for himfelf and family. The fenn pa^s
the ftipulated price for the hay, and allows his hoft as
much milk, whey, and a kind of lean cheefe, as may
be made ufe of in the family, and alio leaves him the
manure of his cows. In the middle of April, the fenn
again iffues forth with his herd to the fertile Alps,
which he rents during the fummer.
Fine cattle are the pride of the cow-keeper who inha¬
bits the Alps. He adorns his heft cows with large bells
fufpended from broad thongs, which are manufactured
and fold by the inhabitants of the Tyrol. Theie are
faftened round the cow’s neck by means of a large
buckle. The largeft of thefe bells meafure a foot in
diameter, fwelling out in the middle, and tapering to¬
wards the end. The whole peal of bells, including the
thongs, is worth 150 guilders, while the apparel of the
fenn himfelf, even in his belt attire, is not worth more
than 20 guilders, Thefe bells are chiefly worn in the
fpring, when driven to the Alps, and in the autumn or
winter. It is furprifing to fee how proud and pleafed
the cows ftalk forth when ornamented with their bells.
One would fcarcely imagine how fenfible thefe animals
are of their rank, and even touched with vanity and
jealoufy ! Should the leading cow be deprived of her
honours, (lie is grieved at the difgrace, which is mani-
fefted by her conftant lowing, abftaining from food,
and growing lean. The rival, on whom the badge of
diftimftion has devolved, feels her marked vengeance,
being wounded and perfecuted by her in the moft furir
ous manner, until the former either recovers her bell,
or is removed from the herd. However Angular this
may appear, it is rendered indifputable by the concur¬
ring teftimony of centuries.
The voice of the fenn brings the cows together, when
difperfed on the Alps, who is then faid to allure them.
That the cattle can well diftinguilh the note of their
' keeper,
Senr-ka
II
Serin.
(a) The map alluded to is that which accompanies the volume which contains the proceedings of the A facia-
tions. This work was printed in 1791.
■Senna,
Sennaar.
JVoodville's
Medical
botany.
S.ond. Med.
your.
vol. viii.
SEN [ *44 1 SEN
keeper, appears from their haftening to him, though at
a great diftance. He furnidies that cow which is in the
habit of ftraying fartheft with a fmall bell, and by her
arrival he knows that all the reft are affembled.
SENNA, the leaf of the caffia fentta of Linmeus.
See Cassia, Botany and Materia Medic a Index.
Senna appears to have been cultivated in England in
the time of Parkinfon (1640) j and Miller tells us, that
by keeping thefe plants in a hotbed all the fummer,
he frequently had them in flower *, but adds, it is very
rarely that they perfe6t their feeds in England. There
can be little doubt, however, but that fome of the Bri-
tifh poffeflions may be found well enough adapted to
the growth of this vegetable, and that the patriotic
views of the Society for encouraging Arts, See. which
has offered a reward to thofe who fucceed in the at¬
tempt, will be ultimately accompliihed.
Senna, which is in common ufe as a purgative, was
firft known to the Arabian phyficians Serapion and
Mefue : the firft among the Greeks who takes any no¬
tice of it is Aftuarius, but he only fpeaks of the fruit,
and not of the leaves. To remove the difagreeable tafte
of this medicine, Dr Cullen recommends coriander feeds $
and, for preventing the gripings with which it is fome-
t?imes attended, he thinks the warmer aromatics, as car¬
damoms or ginger, would be more effe&ual.
The Senna Italica, or blunt-leaved fenna, is a variety
©f the Alexandrian fpecies j which, by its cultivation in
the fouth of France (Provence), has been found to af-
fume this change. It is lefs purgative than the pointed¬
leaved fenna, and is therefore to be given in larger do-
fes. It was employed as a cathartic by Dr Wright at
Jamaica, where it grows on the fand banks near the
fea.
SENNAAR, a country of Africa, bordering upon
Abyflinia, with the title of a kingdom ; the prefent go¬
vernment of which was eftablilhed in the 16th century
by a race of negroes named, in their own language,
Skillook. This country, together with all the northern
parts of Africa, had been overrun by the Saracens du¬
ring the rapid conquefts of the caliphs; but inftead of
erecting any diftimft principalities here, as in other
parts, they had incorporated themfelves with the old
inhabitants called Shepherds, whom they found at their
arrival *, had converted them to their religion, and be¬
come one people with them. In 1504 the Shillook, a
jpeople before unknown, came from the weftern banks
of the river Bahiar el Abiad, which empties itfelf into
the Nile, and conquered the country j allowing the A-
rabs, however, to retain their poffeflions on condition of
paying them a certain tribute. Thefe founded the city
of Sennaar, and have ever fince continued to carry on
an intercourfe with Egypt in the way of merchandife.
At the eftablilhment of their monarchy the whole na¬
tion were Pagans, but foon after became converts to
Mohammedanifm, and took the name of Funge, an ap¬
pellation fignifying “ lords or conquerors,” and like-
wife free citizens. Mr Bruce, who paffed through this
country in his return from Abyflinia, gives a lift of 20
kings who have reigned in it fince the conqueft of the
Shillook.
This country is inhabited by a people fo barbarous
and brutifh, that no hiftory of them can be expefted.
^Jne of the moft remarkable of their cuftoms is, that
the king afeends the throne with the expectation of be-
J
ing murdered whenever the general council of the ua- SernaaP-
tion thinks proper. The dreadful office of executioner
belongs to one Angle officer, ftyled, in the language of
the country, Sid el Coom ; and who is always a relation j>rl/ce>s
of the monarch himfelf. It was from his regifters that Travels,
Mr Bruce took the lift of the kings already mention- vpl. iv.
ed, with the number of years they reigned, and which
may therefore be received as authentic. The Sid el
Coorn in office at the time that Mr Bruce vifited this
country was named Achmet, and was one of his beft
friends. He had murdered the late king, with three
of his fons, one of whom was an infant at its mothers
bread j he was alfo in daily expectation of performing
the fame office to the reigning fovereign. He was by
no means referved concerning the nature of his office,
but anfwered freely every queftion that was put to him.
When alked by Mr Bruce why he murdered the king’s
young fon in his father’s prefence ? he anfwered, that
he did it from a principle of duty to the king himfelf*
who had a right to fee his fon killed in a lawful and re¬
gular manner, which w as by cutting his throat with a
fword, and not in a more painful or ignominious way,
which the malice of his enemies might poflibly have in-
flidled.
The king, he faid, was very little concerned at the
fight of his fon’s death, but he was fo very unwilling to
die himfelf, that he often preffed the executioner to let
him efcape j but finding his intreaties ineffe&ual, he
fubmitted at laft without refiftance. On being alked
whether he was not afraid of coming into the prefence of
the king, confidering the office he might poffibly have
to perform ? he replied, that he was not in the lead; afraid
on this account $ that it was his duty to be with the king
every morning, and very late in the evening j that the
king knew he would have no hand in promoting his
death ; but that, when the matter was abfolutely deter¬
mined, the reft was only an affair of decency *, and it
would undoubtedly be his own choice, rather to fall by
the hand of his own relation in private than by a hired
affaffin, an Arab, or a Chriftian flave, in the fight of the
populace. Baady the king’s father, having the misfor¬
tune to be taken prifaner, w*as fent to Atbara to Welled
Haffan the governor of that province to be put to death
there. But the king, who was a ftrong man, and always
armed, kept fo much upon his guard, that Welled could
•find no opportunity of killing him but by running him
through the back with a lance as he was walhing his
hands. For this Welled himfelf was afterwards put to
death; not on account of the murder itfelf, but becaufe,
in the firft place, he, who was not the proper executioner^
had prefumed to put the king to death 5 and, in the next,
becaufe he had done it with a lance, whereas the only
lawful inftrument was a fword.
On the death of any of the fovereigns of this coun¬
try, his eldeft fon fucceeds to the throne of courfe j on
which as many of his brothers as can be found are ap¬
prehended, and put to death by the Sid el Coom in
the manner already related. Women are excluded from
the fovereignty here as well as in Abyffinia. The
princeffes of Sennaar, however, are worfe off than thofe
of Abyflinia, having no fettled income, nor being treat¬
ed in any degree better than the daughters of pri¬
vate perfons. The king is obliged, once in his life¬
time, to plough and fow a niece of ground ; whence*
he is named Baady, the “ countryman or peafant j” a
SEN
.Sennaar. title as common among the monarchs of Sennaar as Cas-
‘•“■""Y""”—' fat was among the Romans. The royal family were
originally negroes} but as the kings frequently marry
Arab women, the white colour of the mother is commu¬
nicated to the child. Jfhis, we are told by hii 11 ruee,
is invariably the cafe, when a negro man of Sennaar mar¬
ries an Arab woman 5 and it holds equally good, when
an Arab man marries a negro wmman ; and he likewife
informs us, that he never law one black Arab all the
time he was at Sennaar. _ *
The foil and climate of this country is extremely un¬
favourable both to man and beaft. The men are ftrong
and remarkable for their fize, but (hort lived; and there
is fuch a mortality among the children, that were it
not for a conilant importation of (laves, the metropolis
would be depopulated. The fhortnets of their lives,
however, may perhaps be accounted for, irom then in¬
dulging themfelves from tneir infancy in every kind of
excefs. No horfe, mule, or afs, will live at Sennaar
or for many miles round it. X"he cale is the fame with
bullocks, flieep, dogs, cats, and poultry ; _ all of them
muft go to the lands every half-year. It is difficult to
account for this mortality ; though Mr Bruce affures
us it is the cafe everywhere about the metropolis of this
country, where the foil is a fat earth, during the firft
feafon of the rains. Two greyhounds which he brought
along with him from Atbara, and the mules he brought
from Abyffinia, lived only a few weeks after their arri¬
val at Sennaar. Several of the kings of Sennaar have
tried to keep lions, but it was always found impoffible
to preferve them alive after the rains. They will live,
however, as well as other quadrupeds, in the fands, at no
great diftance from the capital. No fpecies of tree ex¬
cept the lemon flowers near this city ; the cultivation of
the rofe has often been attempted, but always without
fuccefs. In other refpefts, however, the foil of Sennaar
is exceedingly fertile, being faid to yield 300 fold ; but
this is thought by Mr Bruce to be a great exaggeration.
It is all (own with dora or millet, which is the principal
food of the people ; wheat and rice are alfo produced
here, which are fold by the pound, even in years of plen¬
ty. The foil all round is ftrongly impregnated with fait,
fo that a fufficient quantity to ferve the inhabitants is ex¬
tra fted from it.
Sennaar, a city of Africa, the capital of the king¬
dom of that name. It Hands according to Mr Bruce’s
cbfervations, in N. Lat. 130 34' 36", E. Long. 330
30' 30", on the weft fide of the Nile, and clofe upon
the banks of it; the ground on which it Hands being
juft high enough to prevent the inundation. The town
is very populous, and contains a great many houfes. In
Poncet’s time they were all of one ftory; but now
moft of the officers have houfes of two ftories high.
They are built of clay mixed with a very little ftraw,
and have all flat roofs; which (hows that the rains here
muft be much lefs in quantity than to the fouthward.
During the time of Mr Bruce’s refidence here, however,
there was one week of continual rain, and the Nile, af¬
ter loud thunder and great darknefs to the fouth, in-
creafed violently ; the whole ftream being covered with
the wrecks of houfes and their furniture ; fo that he
fuppofed it had deftroyed many villages to the fouth¬
ward. About t 2 miles to the north-weft of Sennaar is a
colleftion of villages named Shaddly, from a great faint
of. that name, who conftrufted feveral granaries here.
Yol. XIX. Part I.
SEN
Thefe are no other than large pits dug in the ground, Sennaar,
and well plaftered in the infide with clay, then filled
with grain when it is at its loweft price, and afterwards
covered up and plaftered again at top : thefe pits they
call matamores. On any profpeA of dearth they are
opened, and the corn fold to the people. About 24
miles north of Shaddly there is another fet of granaries
name Wed- Aboud, ftill greater than Shaddly ; and upon
thefe two the fubfiftence of the Arabs principally de¬
pends : for as thefe people are at continual war with
each other, and direct their fury rather againft the crops
than the perfons of their enemies, the whole of them
would be unavoidably ftarved, were it not for this ex¬
traordinary refource. Small villages of foloiers are fcat-
tered up and down this country to guard the grain af¬
ter it is town, which is only that fpecies of millet named
dora; the foil, it is faid, being incapable of producing
any other. There are great hcilows made in the earth
at proper diftances throughout the country, which fill
with water in the rainy feafon, and are afterwards of
great ufe to the Arabs as they pafs from the cultivated
parts to the fands. The fly, which is fuch a dreadful enemy
to the cattle, is never feen to the northward of Shaddly.
To the weftward of thefe granaries the country is
quite full of trees as far as the river Abiad, or El-aice.
In this extenfive plain there arife two ridges of moun¬
tains, one called Jibbed Moira, or the Mountain of water;
the other Jibbel Segud, or the Cold Mountain. Both of
them enjoy a fine climate, and ferve for a protection to
the farms about Shaddly and Aboud already mentioned.
Here alfo are fortrefles placed in the way of the Arabs,
which ferve to oblige them to pay tribute in their flight
from the cultivated country, during the rains, to the dry
lands of Atbara. Each of thefe diftrifts is governed
by a defeendant of their ancient and native princes,
who long refilled all the power of the Arabs. Sacri¬
fices of a horrid nature are faid to have been offered up
on thefe mountains till about the year 1554, when one
of the kings of Sennaar befieged firft one and then the
other of the princes in their mountains; and having
forced them to furrender, lie faftened a chain of gold to
each of their ears, expofed them in the market place at
Sennaar, and fold them for Haves at lefs than a farthing
each. Soon after this they were circumcifed, convert¬
ed to the Mahometan religion, and reftored to their
kingdoms.
“ Nothing (fays Mr Bruce) is more pleafant than Yol. iv.
the country,around Sennaar in the end of Auguft and P-475-
beginning of September. The grain, being now fprung
up, makes the whole of this immenfe plain appear a le¬
vel green land, interfperfed with great lakes of water,
and ornamented at certain intervals with groups of vil¬
lages ; the conical tops of the. houfes prefenting at a di¬
ftance the appearance of finall encampments. Through
this very extenfive plain winds the Nile, a delightful ri¬
ver there, above a mile broad, full to the very brim, but
never overflowing. Everywhere on thefe banks are
feen herds of the moft beautiful cattle of various kinds.
The banks of the Nile about Sennaar referable the plea-
fanteft part of Holland in the fummer feafon ; but. foon
after, when the rains ceafe, and the fun exerts its utmoft
influence, the dora begins to ripen, the leaves to turn
yellow and to rot, the lakes to putrefy, fmell, become
full of vermin, and all its beauty fuddenly difappears:
bare fcorched Nubia returns, and all its terrors of poi-
T fonous
[ 145 J
4
SEN r 146 ] SEN
fonous winds and moving fands, glowing and ventilated
^ with fultry blafts, which are followed by a troop of ter-
rible attendants; epilepfies, apoplexies, violent fevers,
obftinate agues, and lingering painful dyfenteries, Hill
more cbflinate and mortal.
“ War and treafon feem to be the only employment
of this horrid people, whom Heaven has feparated by al-
molt impalfable deterts from the reft of mankind ; con¬
fining them to an accurfed fpot, feemingly to give them
an earneft in time of the only other curfe which he has
referved to^them for an eternal hereafter.”
With regard to the climate of the country round
Sennaar, Mr Bruce has feveral very curious obferva-
tions. The thermometer rifes in the fliade to 119 de¬
grees ; but the degree indicated by this inftrument does
not at all correfpond with the fenfations occafioned by
it; nor with the colour of the people who live under it.
“ Nations of blacks ( '* s he) live within latitude 13
and 14 degrees; about 10 degrees fouth of them, nearly
under the line, all the people are white, as we had an
opportunity of obferving daily in the Galla. Sennaar,
which is in latitude 13 degrees, is hotter by the ther¬
mometer 50 degrees, when the fun is moft diftant from
it, than Gondar, wdiich is a degree farther fouth, when
the fun is vertical.—Cold and hot (fays our author)
are terms merely relative, not determined by the lati¬
tude, but elevation of the place. When, therefore, w'e
fay //o/, fome other explanation is necelfary concerning
the place where we are, in order to give an adequate idea
of the fenfations of that heat upon the body, and the ef-
fcdls of it upon the lungs. The degree of the ther¬
mometer conveys this but very imperfedlly; 90 degrees
is exceflively hot at Loheia in Arabia Felix ; and yet
the latitude of Loheia is but 15 degrees; whereas 90
degrees at Sennaar is only warm as to fenfe ; though
Sennaar, as we have already faid, is in latitude 13 de¬
grees.
“ At Sennaar, then, I call it cold, when one fully
clothed and at reft feels himfelf in vrant of fire. I call
it cool, when one fully clothed and at reft feels he could
bear more covering all over, or in part, than he has at
that time. I call it temperate, when a man fo clothed,
and at reft, feels no fuch want, and can take moderate
exercife, fuch as walking about a room without fweat-
ing. I call it Do arm, when a man, fo clothed, does
not fweat when at reft; but, on taking moderate exer¬
cife, fweats, and again cools. I call it hot, when a man
at reft, or with moderate exercife, fweats exceffively.
I rail if very hot, when a man with thin, or little clo¬
thing, fweats much, though at reft. I call it excejfive
hot, when a man, in his fhirt and at reft, fweats excef¬
fively, udien all motion is painful, and the knees feel
feeble, as if after a fever. I call it extreme hot, when
the (Length fails, a difpofition to faint comes on, a
ftraitnefs is found in the temples, as if a fmall cord was
drawn tight about the head, the voice impaired, the Ikin
dry, and the head feems more than ordinarily large and
light. This, I apprehend, denotes death at hand ; but
this is rarely if ever effefted by the fun alone, without
the addition of that poifoneus wind which purfued us
through Atbara, where it has, no doubt, contributed to
the total extinfrion of every thing that hath the breath
of life. A thermometer, graduated upon this fcale,
would exhibit a figure very different from the common
one; for I am convinced by experiment, that a web of
the fineft mufiin, wrapt round the body at Sennaar, will
occafion at mid-day a greater fenfation of heat in the bo¬
dy, than a rife oi 5 degiees in the thermometer ol Fah¬
renheit.
“ At Sennaar, from 70 to 78 degrees of Fahrenheit’s
thermometer is cool; from 79 to 92 temperate ; at 92
degrees begins warmth. Although the degree of the
thermometer marks a greater heat than is felt by the
body of us ft rangers,< it feems to me that the fenfations
*'f the natives bear ftill a lefs proportion to that degree
than ours. On the 2d of Auguft, while I was lying
perfectly enervated on a carpet in a room deluged with
water at 12 o’clock, the thermometer at 116, I faw
feveral black labourers pulling down a houfe, working
with great vigour, without any fymptoms of being in¬
commoded.”
The drefs of the people of Sennaar confifts only of
a long fliirt of blue cloth, which wraps them up from
the under part of the neck to the feet. It does not,
however, conceal the neck in the men, though it does
in the women. The men fometimes have a falh tied
about their middle ; and both men and women go bare¬
footed in the houfes, whatever their rank may be. The
ftoors of their apartments, efpecially thofe of the wo¬
men, are covered with Perfian carpets. Both men and
women anoint themfelves, at leaft once a-day, with ca¬
mel’s greafe mixed with civet, which, they imagine,
foftens their Ikins, and preferves them from cutane¬
ous eruptions; of which they are fo fearful, that they
confine themfelves to the houfe if they obferve the
fmalleft pimple on their ikins. With the fame view
of preferving their ikins, though they have a clean
fhirt every day, they ileep with a greaied one at night,
having no other covering but this. Their bed is a
tanned bull’s hide, which this conftant greafing foftens
very much ; it is alfo very cool, though it gives a fmell
to their bodies from which they cannot be freed by any:
waftung.
Our author gives a very curious defcription of the
queens and ladies of the court at Sennaar. He had
accefs to them as a phyiician, and was permitted to pay
his vifit alone. He was firft ihown into a large fquare
apartment, where there were about 50 black women,
all quite naked excepting a very narrow piece of cotton
rag about their waifts. As he was mufing whether
thefe were all queens, one of them took him by the
hand, and led him into another apartment much better
lighted than the former. Here he faw three women
fitting upon a bench or fofa covered with blue Surat
cloth ; they themfelves being clothed from the neck to
the feet with cotton fhirts of the fame colour. Thefe
were three of the king’s waves; his favourite, who was
one of the number, appeared to be about fix feet high,
and fo corpulent that our traveller imagined her to be
the largeft creature he had feen next to the elephant
and rhinoceros. Her features perfectly refembled thofe
of a negro : a ring of gold paifed through her under lip,
and weighed it down, till, like a flap, it covered her
chin, leaving her teeth bare, which w^ere fmall and very
fine. The iniide of her lip was made black with anti¬
mony. Her ears reached down to her ihoulders, and
had the appearance of wings : there was a gold ring in
each of them about five inches in diameter, and fome-
WThat fmaller than a man’s little finger ; the weight of
w’hich had drawn down the hole where her ear was
SEN [ 147 ] SEN
Setihaar pierced fo much that three fingers might eafily pafs
!1 above the ring. She had a gold necklace like that
Senones. capej Efc/avage, of feveral rows, one below another }
v—^ w^jc^ were hUng ro vs of feqjins pierced. She had
two manacles of gold upon her ancles larger than thofe
ufed for chaining felons. Our author could not imagine
how it was polliole for her to walk with them, till he
was informed that they were hollow. The others were
drefied much in the lame manner j only there was one
who had chains coming from her ears to the outiide of
each noliril, where they were fattened. A ring was
alfo put through the griltle ot her nofe, and which hung
down to the opening of her mouth-, having ail together
fomething of the appearance of a horfe’s bridle ; and
Mr Bruce thinks that (lie mult have breathed with dif¬
ficulty.
The poorer fort of the people of Sennaar live on the
dour or bread of millet •, the rich make puddings of this,
toafling the Hour before the fire, and putting milk and
butter into it ; befides which they ule beef partly roaited
and partly raw. They have very fine and fat horned
cattle, but the meat commonly fold in the market is
camel’s flelh. The liver and fpare rib of this animal are
always eaten raw } nor did our author fee one in da nee
to the contrary all the time he was in the country.
Hog’s flelh is not fold in the market; but all the com¬
mon people of Sennaar eat it openly ; thofe in office,
who pretend to be Mahometans, doing the fame in
fecret.
There are no manufaflures in this country, and the
principal article of trade is blue Surat cloth. In for¬
mer times, when caravans could pafs withfafety, Indian
goods were brought in quantities from Jidda to Sen¬
naar, and then difperfed over the country of the blacks.
The returns were made in gold, a powder called tibbar,
civet, rhinocerofes horns, ivory, oftrich feathers, and
above all Haves or giafs, more of thefe being exported
from Sennaar than from all the eaft of Africa. This
trade, however, as well as that of the gold and ivory, is
almofl: deftroyed ; though the gold is Hill reputed to be
the bell and pureft in Africa, and is therefore bought at
Mocha to be carried to India, where it all centres at
laffr
SENNERTUS, Daniel, an eminent phyfician, was
born in 1572 at Breilaw ; and in 1593 he was lent to
Wittemberg, where he made great progrefs in philo-
fophy and phyfic. He vifited the univerfities of Letp-
lic, Jena, Francfort on the Oder, and Berlin ; but foon
returned to Wittemberg, w'here he was promoted to the
degree of doftor of phyfic, and foon after to a profelfor-
ffiip in the fame faculty. He was the firtl who intro¬
duced the fludy of chemifiry into that univerfity ; he
gained a great reputation by his works and prafiice,
and was very generous to the poor. He died of the
plague at Wittemberg, in 1637. He raifed himfelf
enemies by contradicting the ancients. He thought the
ieed of all living creatures animated, and that the foul
of this feed produces organization. He was accufed of
imniety for afierting that the fouls of beads are not ma¬
terial 5 for this was affirmed to be the fame thing with >
itfierting that they are immortal ; but he rejeCIed this
confequence, as he well might do. See METAPHYSICS,
Part III. chan. vi.
SENONES, in Ancient Geography, a people of Gal¬
lia Celtica, fituated on the Sequana to the fouth of the
Pariiii, near the confluence of the Jeauna or Yonne with Seiiones
the above mentioned river. Their molt confiderable ex- t!
ploit was their invafion ol Italy, and taking and burn- . S£r'^‘
ing Rome, as related under that article. This was done
by a colony of them long before tranfported into Italy,
and fettled on the Adriatic. Their capital, Agendicum
in Gaul, was in the lower age called Senones, now Sens,
In Italy the Senones extended themfelves as far as the
river Aefis 5 but were afterwards driven beyond the Ru¬
bicon, which became the boundary of Gallia Cifalpina?
(Polybius, Strabo.)
SENSATION, in Philofophy, the perception of ex¬
ternal objeCIs by means of the fenfes. See Metaphy¬
sics, Part I. chap. i.
SENSE, a faculty of the foul whereby it perceives
external objeCls by means of the impreffions they make
on certain organs of the body. See METAPHYSICS,
Part I. and Anatomy, N° 137, &c.
Common SENSE, is a term that has been varioufiy
ufed both by ancient and modern writers. With fome
it has been fynonymous with public fenfe; with others
it has denoted prudence ; in certain inftances, it has been
confounded with fome of the powers of taile ; and, ac¬
cordingly, thofe who commit egregious blunders with
regard to decorum, faying and doing what is offenfive
to their company, and inconfiftent with their own cha-
rafler, have been charged with a defeft in common
fenfe. Some men are diftingulffied by an uncommon
acutenefs in difeovering the characters of others; and
this talent has been fometimes called common fenfe; fi-
milar to which is that ufe of the term, which makes
it to fignify that expeiience and knowledge of life
which is acquired by living in fociety. To this mean¬
ing Quintilian refers, fpeaking of the advantages of a
public education : Senfum ipjum qui communis dicitur,
ubi dfeet, cum fe a congrejfu, qui non hominibus fo/um, fed
mutis quoque animalibus naturalis cf,fegregarit ? Lib. i.
cap. 2.
But the term common fenfe hath in modern times been
ufed to fignify that power of the mind which perceives
truth, or commands belief, not by progreffive argumen¬
tation, but by an inflantaneous, inftindlive, and irrefifti-
ble impulfe ; crerived neither from education nor from
habit, but from nature ; a£ling independently of our will,
whenever its objeft is prelented, according to an eitn-
blilhed law, and therefore called fenfe ; and afting in a
fimilar manner upon all, or at leaf! upon a great majo- *
rity of mankind, and therefore called common fenfe. See
Metaphysics, N° 127.
Moral SENSE, is a determination of the mind to be
pleafed with the contemplation of thofe affeClions, ac¬
tions, or ch?.ra£lers, of rational agents, which we call
good or virtuous.
This moral fenfe of beauty in aftions and affeflions
may appear ftrange at firfl view ; fome of our moralifts
themfelves are offended at it in Lord Shaftefbury, as be¬
ing accuftomed to deduce every approbation or averfion
from rational views of intend!. It is certain that his
Lordffiip has carried the influence of the moral fenre
very far, and fome of his followers have carried it far¬
ther. The advocates for the felnfli fyftem feem to drive
their opinions to the oppofite extreme, and we have elfe-
where endeavoured to fhow that the truth lies between
the contending parties. See Moral Philosophy, N®
Public
Senfes.
SEN [ 148 ] SEN
Public SENSE is defined by the noble author of the
Chaiafteriilics to be an innate propenfity to be pleafed
with the happinefs of others, and to be uneafy at their
mifery. It is found, he fays, in a greater or lefs degree
in all men, and was fometimes called or fenfus
communis, by ancient writers.
Of the reality of this public fenfe we have great
doubts. The conduct of favages, who are more under
the influence of original inltindt than civilized men,
gives no countenance to it. Their affedtions feem all
to be lelfilh, or at leafi: to fpring from felt-love variouf-
ly modified. For the happinefs of their wives they
have very little regard, confidering them merely as in-
flruments of their own pleafure, and valuing them for
nothing elfe. Hence they make them toil, while they
themfelves indulge inliftlefs idlenefs. To their children
we believe they exhibit ftrong fymptoms of attachment,
as foon as they derive afliftance from them in war, or in
the bufinefs of the chace 5 but during the helplefs years
of infancy, the child is left by the lelfifh father wholly
to the care and protedlion of its wretched mother 5
who, impelled by the Jlorge of all females to their
young, cheriflies her offspring with great fondnefs.—
The lavage is, indeed, fufceptible of ftrong attachments,
fimilar to that which we call friendlhip ; but fuch at¬
tachments are no proofs of difinterefted benevolence, or
what his Lordihip calls the public fenfe. Two barbarous
heroes are probably firft linked together by the ob-
fervation of each other’s prowTefs in war, or their Ikill
in purfuing their game 5 for fuch obfervalion cannot fail
to fhow them that they may be ufeful to one another;
and we have elfewhere fhown how real friendfhip may
Ipring from fentiments originally felfifh. The favage is
very much attached to his horde or tribe, and this at¬
tachment refembles patriotifm : but patriotifm itfelf is
not a fentiment of pure benevolence delighting in the
happinefs of others, and grieving at their mifery 5 for
the patriot prefers his own country to all others, and is
not very fcrupulous with relpcdf to the redlitude of the
means by which he promotes its intereft, or deprefles its
rivals. The favage purines with relentlefs rigour the
enemies of himfelf or of the tribe to whjch he belongs;
fticws no mercy to them when in his power, but puts
them to the cruelleft death, and carries their fcalps to
the leader of his party. Thefe fadls, which cannot be
controverted, are perfedlly irreconcileable with innate
benevolence, or a public fenfe comprehending the whole
race of men ; and {hew the truth of that theory by
which we have in another place endeavoured to account
for all the paflions, focial as well as felfifh. See Pas¬
sion.
SENSES, Pleasures and Pairs of. The natural
agreeablenefs, difagreeablenefs and indifference of our
ienfations and perceptions, prefent to the mind an im¬
portant and extenfive field of inquiry ; and on this fub-
je£f we ftiall here make a few obfervations. All our
fenfes have been certainly beftowed upon us for wife and
beneficent purpofes; and, accordingly, we find, that all
of them, when properly cultivated, orexercifed and im¬
proved, are capable of affording us much pleafure. The
ienfes of fmell and of tafte feem rather intended for the
prefervation of our animal exiftence, and in this point of
view are properly an objeff of the natural hiftciy of man 5
whilft the other three feem to be more peculiarly in¬
tended for our mental improvement, and accordingly
form an objeft of intclledfual and of moral philofophy. Senfes.
And agreeably to this we know that we derive a great11 N~~
deal of very ufeful knowledge, in an eafy and fimple
manner, concerning the objedls that furround us, in the
early part of life, from all the fenfes, particularly from
fight and touch, and this too without labour or ftudy.
But this is not the only purpofe for which the fenles
were defigned.
It being thus certain, that the fenfes were beftowed
upon us partly to prelerve our animal exiftence, and
partly for our mental improvement, it feems reafonable,
even a prion, to expedt that nature would attach fome
pleafure to fuch ufe and exercife of them, as are calcu¬
lated to promote thefe ends, and pain to the contrary;
particularly in thole inftances in which fhe has left the
management of them fubjeft to our own controul. And
accordingly we cannot but obferve what delight we de¬
rive from our fenfes, efpecially in the morning of life,
by which it would feem, that nature intended thus win-
ningly to invite us to the proper exercife and improve¬
ment oi them •, and as it were unconfcioufly, acquire
much ufetul knowledge. It is this fpecies of pleafure
that fupports and excites boys in the conftant and often
immoderate exercife of their organs of voluntary mo¬
tion ; the powers of which are thus increafed and invi¬
gorated.
The exercife and improvement of the fenfes being
fubfervient to our intelledfual improvement, nature has
alfo kindly attached much refined and rational pleafure
to the mental exertions; fo that we are thus {educed, as
it wrere, to the cultivation of the various extraordinary
powers and faculties of the mind.
It is evident that nature has given fuch organs and
faculties to man, as are calculated not only to make him
live, but alfo to render life agreeable. Here too we
obtain a flight glimpfe at leail of fome of the final cau-
fes of the pleafures of fenfe. But if it be alkcd how it
happens, that there are fuch wide diverfities between
our fenfations, fomc being by nature very agreeable to
all men, and fome as difagreeable, whilft there are
others fo indifferent, as to give neither pleafure nor pain,
we muft contefs, that we can give no fatisfadory anfwer,
to fliew how fo many very different fenfations are pro¬
duced by various kinds of impreffiens made on certain
organs of the body, and how all thefe different impref-
fions excite fuch fenfations as fuggeft not only corief-
ponding perceptions and external qualities, but at the
fame time affeft the mind with pleafure, pain, trouble,
anxiety, or difguft. To be fuccefsful in thefe inquiries,
we muft prefuppofe fome knowledge of the nature of the
connexion fubfifting between the mind and body, which
there is reafon to think is placed beyond the limits pre-
{cribed by nature to human refearch.
The pleafure or pain which conftantly attends certain
fenfations is rot uniform in degree, but varies confider-
ably, not only in different individuals, but even in the
fame perfons at different times. It is not thus with the
fenfations themfelves. Thefe are always conftant and
uniform. The fame kind of impreflion, when the or¬
gans &c. are found, uniformly and invariably produce
fimilar fenfations; and thefe are as invariably followed
by the perception of their own peculiar exciting caufes.-
For any particular imprefficn is never known to excite
in the fame perfon a new fenfation, or the perception of
an external objeff different from that which itprevioufty
fuggefted,
SEN [ 149 ] SEN,
Senfes. fueecfled excepting in cafes of difeafe. And when it manner, we are unable to explain it farther than by s™fa'
does r^r-lv occur, as in thofe who cannot dhtinguhh a faying, fince the taft is unqueftxonable, that iuch is the —^
particular colour, fraell or tafte, from certain others, nature of the human conihtution. Of the efteds them-
we uniformly attribute it to difeafe or malconformation. felves, no man can entertain a doubt j and them cauies,
Were we not thus to have uniformly fimilar fenfations though at prefent unknown, may by tune and inquiry
-nd perceptions of external objeds from limilar impref- be further developed and Amplified. “ I he labyrinth,
lions the fenfes would not be at all fubfervient to our fays Dr Reid, “ may be too intricate, and. the thread
inteliedual improvement ; fince, by giving different lef- too fine, to be traced through all its windings 5 but it
fons concerning the fame or fimilar objeds at 'different we flop where we can trace it no farther, and fecure the
times, they would render it impofiible for us to be cer- ground we have, gained, there is no harm done } a
tain of any thing, or to benefit by experience. quicker eye may in time trace it further. .
The effeds of cuftom, which are at all times fo con- Thefe principles are capable m affording us ftill far-
fiderable and evident with refped both to the mind and ther explanations. Why are new femations always more
body, (as in the cafe of particular organs or faculties agreeable and variety fo pleafing ? Eecaufe they fix the
much improved by attention and exercife,) have little or attention more, and are not as yet blunted by frequent
no influence at all in interrupting or modifying this uni- repetition or by habit. It is becaufe fome fenfatrons
formity in our fenfations and perceptions. For no found, lofe their wonted effeds by cuftom and by repetition,
or properly organized perfon will, either naturally or that we require ftronger ones, or at leaft ftronger im-
by cuftom, ever miftake hardnefs for foftnefs, red for p.reffions on the organs and nerves, to mcreafe or con-
green, or fweet for bitter. But the influence of cuftom tinue our pleafur.es. It is alfo m confequence o± then
in modifying the pains and pleafures of fenfe is well becoming lefs poignant through habit that we neglect
known and confiderable. For a perfon, who can moft fo many pleafures, which we hardly know' to be iuch,
accurately diftinguifh fweetnefs from fournefs, will at till they have flown for ever ; and it is oecaufe m
the fame time, either by particular conformation, or the morning of life evdy thing has moie no1, ej.y, and be-
more frequently in confequence of ufe and habit, prefer caufehabit hasnot deftroyed theii leliin,that the pleafnres
wormwood or tobacco to honey. °f youth are much more intenfe than thofe of ago. -f f 0
But although we may defpair of being ever able to degree of pleafure is fimilar to that which a blind man
difeover the phyfical caufe of the pleafures and pains of would feel on being made to ice, or to that whicn a man
the fenfes, we may, however, advance a little by ob- would enjoy on fuddenly acquiring a. new lenfitive fa-
fervlng and regiftering particular fa£ls. It is, accord- cu-lty, although by long uie and haoit tnefe pleamres
jngly, of ufe to remark, that every fpecies of fenfation, are at prefent for the moft part or wholly blotted away,
if its nature be otherwife unchanged, is agreeable or Although moft fenfations, when ftrong and livery
difagreeable in proportion to its • ftrenglh or intenfenefs. enough to make themfelves accurately and eafily diflin-
FoMthere is no" fenfation, however agreeable, that will guifhed, generally pleafe moft, each in its own kind and
not become difagreeable, and even intolerable, if it be manner $ full, as there are difierent kinds ci pw:aure, dif-
immoderately intenfe. Whilft on the contrary, thofe, ferent fenfations may pleafe the mind in various ways 5 and
which by their ftrength and nature are very troublefome, accordingly, it is not rrom the luftre of the midday fun,
if rendered more mild and moderate become not only nor from the beautiful and lively appearance of all na-
lolerable, but agreeable. Thus, with refpedl to the ture at noon, lolely that the ejes deuve pleaiine, any
fenfes it would ftem, that pain and pleafure are only more than grand mufical founds are the only things that
different degrees of the fame feeling, and when we con- pleafe the ear. For we often contemplate with a very
fider the great varieties of which the fenfation, not on- different and a very confiderable degree of pleafure the
]y of different organs, but even of any one of them, is fubhme and awful icenes of natuie, the twilight uarkireis.
fufceptible, and that each degree of thefe may be ac- of the. ftiady grove, and even the gloomy horror of
companded with pleafure or pain, more or lefs, rve muft right itfelf, \v e liften with delight to the tempeft.
conclude that the pains and pleafures of fenfe are capa- fhaking the foreft, as well as to the genUe muimurs. or
ble-of numberlefs modifications both in degree and 111 the palling ftream. i here is even a.time when nothing
j.jncg gives fo much pleafure as darknefs, filence, and the ab-
We frequently obferve, that fenfations which were at fence of all fenfation.
firft agreeable, if often repeated, lofe their relith, Amidil the-great variety of good and evil vvitn wnich
though the nature and ftrength of the impreftions be we are eveiy where furrounded, it. is a matter of the
the fame ; whilft others from being at firft very difa- higheft importance to be able, to oifeern aright. I his
greeable, as the tafte of tobacco and opium, become we ftioukl be incapable of doing were we not endowed
very pleafing, though the nature and ftrength of the with agreeable as well as painful femations. dhele fcr\e
impreftions have fuffered no change. For the cxplana- to direQ our choice.. Whatever contributes in any de-
lion of fuch faffs as thefe we muft have recourfe to the gree to our prefervation and .to the improvement of cur
eftecls of cuftom. Thus, in both thefe oppofite cafes, organs and faculties, is accompanied with pleafure} and
tire fenfations from being often repeated, lofe part of on the contrary, wrhen we aie thieatened vyith dangei a
the ftrength, and of the novelty, of courfe, of their firft painful fenfation gives us the alarm. It is to the efta-
imprefiions ■, and, with refpecl to the former inftance, bhfhment of this law that we are rndebted .01 the oura-
being unable to command the attention, become in the tion of our lives, the improved and vigoious llaie of our
courfe of time almoft wholly, or altogether neglected, faculties, and the enjoyment of that fmall poition of
whilft in the latter cafe, from being very offenfive, they happinefs allotted fo us oy nature. “ Goa, (fajs a French,
become higlrly agreeable. But if it be afkcd why writer) having endowed man with various faculties, 00-
habit and cuftom produce thefe effeds, and in what dily as well as intelkaual, in order to promote his hap-
pinefsj,
S E N [ 150 1 SEN
Senfe?. plnefs, alij vouchfafes to conduct him to tills noble end,
not only by the deductions of reafon, but alfo by the
force of inttinCt and fenfation, which are more powerful
and efficacious principles. Thus nature, by a fenfaiion
of pain, inftantaneoudy apprifes us of what might prove
hurtful to us 5 and, on the contrary, by an agreeable
fenfaiion, gently leads us to whatever may tend to the
prefervation of our exiftence, and to the perfect date of
our faculties, thefe being the two points on which our
happinefs depends. Our faculties can neither be of ufe,
nor difplay themfelves farther than as we exercife them ;
motion or action is therefore fo necefiary to us, that
without it wre mutt inevitably fink into a deplorable
flats of infenfibility and languor. On the other hand,
as we are weak and limited creatures, all exceffive and
violent aCtion would impair and deltroy our organs 5 we
muft therefore ufe only moderate motion or exercife,
iince by thefe means the ufe or perfection of cur facul¬
ties is reconciled with our chief inteieft, which is felf-
prefervation. Now it is to this happy medium, I mean
to a moderate exercife of our faculties that the author
of our nature has fo wifely annexed pleafure.
The plealures of fenfe are thus confined within nar¬
row limits ; for they cannot be much increafed without
pain, or often repeated without lofing their reliffi, at
lead in a great meafure ; nor can they be long conti¬
nued, partly for the fame reafon, and becaufe they ex-
hauft the mind, or rather the nervous fyftem. Hence
we fee that our animal appetites are confined within a
narrow range, as is evident from the effects of excefs in
eating and drinking. All our fenfitive powers are impair¬
ed ; whilft, on the contrary, our intellectual powers are
ftrengihened and improved by ufe and exercife. And
in proportion as we indulge our fenfitive powers, our de¬
fires of indu'gence increafe, whilft the pleafures, which
are the objeCts of thefe defires, become regularly lefs
poignant. Thefe, indeed, are wife regulations of na¬
ture ; for it would feem as if fire intended to whifper
gently to us in this way, by means of pradical expe¬
rience, that we are not born folely for the enjoyment of
pleafure, at leaf! not for that of the pleafures of the fen-
fes ; for all of them, as we have already remarked, if
much indulged, lead to liftlefsnefs and dxfgufi, and fome-
times to confiderable pain. And indeed, juft as plea¬
fure paffes thus readily into trouble and pain, fo does the
fudden ceffation of pain, at 1 aft when this has been
confiderable, produce often extraordinary pleafure. So
that we may here apply the beautiful allegory of the di¬
vine Socrates, “ that although pleafure and pain are con¬
trary in their nature, and have their faces turned differ¬
ent ways, yet that Jupiter hath tied them fo together,
that he who lays hold of the one draws the other along
with it.”
We have juft faid, that the fudden ceflation of pain,
at leaft when this has been confiderable, produces often
extraordinary pleafure. But this opinion fecms to be
denied in a late inquiry concerning tafte. “ Among
the pleafures of fenfe,” fays Mr Knight, <{ more parti- Senfes,
cularly among thole belonging to touch, there is a cer-—V'—“
tain clais, which, though anting from negative caufes,
are neverthelefs real and pofiuvc plealures : as when we
gradually iink from any violent or exceffive degree of
adion or irritation into a fbte of tranquillity and repute. .
I lay gradually ; for ii the nanfition be hidden and ab¬
rupt, n vviii not be pleaiant ; the pleaiitre arifing from
the inverted aCtion of the nerves, and not from the ut¬
ter ctflbiion ot aCtion. From this inverted aCtion ariies
the gratification which we receive from a cool breeze,
ivhtn the body has been excefiively heated ; or from
the rocking of a cradle, or the gentle motion of a boat,
or eafy carriage, after having been fatigued with violent
exercife. Such, too, is that which twilight, or the
gloomy (hade of a thicket, affords to the eye after it has
been dazzled by the blaze of the mid-day fun j and
fuch, likewife, is that which the ear receives from the
gradual diminution of loudnefs of tone in mufic.” That
pleafure follows a gradual ceff.tion of any violent ac¬
tion or irritation, we mean not to deny ; but we are at
a lofs to comprehend how' it follows, that the tranfition
from ftrong pain, if it be fudden and abrupt, wall not
be pleafant.
But although the pleafures of fenfe be thus limited,
thefe limits are very d fferent with refpeft to the differ¬
ent fenfes. Some of them are foon exhaufted, and do
not any longer diftinguifli well the objeCfs that corre-
fpond to them \ nor aie they pleafed with thofe objeCfs
which were at firft very agreeable, and which they di-
ftinguiffi with fuffiefent accuracy $ whilft others conti¬
nue to perform their funftions longer, and enjoy a more
continued pleafure. Thus the fenfes of fmell and of
tafte are almoft immediately fatiated ; the (enle of hear¬
ing more ffowly; but the fight is in this refpeCt the laft
of all to be fatigued or fatia ed : wl.ilft the pleafures
that arife from the exercife of our mental faculties are
by far the moil durable of all. “ Exercife of the mind
is as neceflary as that of the body to preferve our ex¬
iftence. 1 he fenfes of other animals, being more quirk
than ours, are fufficient to direfl them to follow what
is agreeable to their nature, or to (bun whatever is con¬
trary thereto. But we are endowed with reafon in or¬
der to fupply the deficiency of our fenfes ; and pleafure
prefents herfelf as an incitement to txercif., in order to
keep the mind from a ftate of hurtful inatlivity. Plea¬
fure is not only the parent of fports and amufements,
but alfo of arts and fciences: and as the whole univerfe
is, as it were, forced by our induftry to pay tribute to
our wants and d£fires, w7e cannot but acknowdedge our
obligation to that law of nature, which has annexed a
degree of pleafure to w hatever exercifes without fatiguing
the mind. The pleafure accompanying it is fometimes
fo great that it tranfports the very foul, fo that fhe feems
as it wrere difengaged from the body. We know what
is recorded in hiftory concerning Archimedes (a), and
fcveral other geometricians both ancient and modern. If
we
(a) When Syracufe was taken by the Romans under Marcellus, Archimedes was in his ftudy, fo intent upon
fome geometrical problems, that he neither heard the clamour of the Romans, nor perceived that the city was ta-
, ken. In this tranfport of ftudy and contemplation a foldier came on him with his drawn fword ; Archimedes, on
feeing him, befovght him to hold his hand till he had finiffied the problem he was about. But the foldier, deaf to
.his intreaty, ran him through the body, although Marcellus, upon entering the city, had given orders that ArchF
i«edes Ihould be fpared, 3
ScnfH
* Theorie
des Senti-
S' E N~ r 1
vve doubt tbe truths of fuch fa6ls, we muft at ieaft ac-
knowlege their probability, fince we meet every day
with a number of fimilar examples. When we fee a
chefs-player fo deeply immerfed in thought as to be in a
manner loft to his outward fenfes, ftiould we not ima¬
gine him to be wholly engroffed with the care of his
own private affairs, or of the public weal? but the ob-
je-3 of all this profound meditation is the pleafure of ex-
ercifing the mind by the movement of a piece of ivory.
From this exercife of the mind alfo arifes the pleafure
w'e fometimes take in refined and delicate fentiments,
which, after the manner of Virgil’s ftiepherdefs, (£V
fugit ad fa/ices, fed fe cupit ante videri), are fometirnes
artfully concealed, but fo as to afford us the pleafure of
difcovering them
From fome of the foregoing remarks we alfo fee that
'able* a<?,f"*nal-ure points out to us the fuperioiity and excellence of
our mental faculties, thus fuggefting to us that vve ought
to cultivate them moft, as being our better and our no¬
bler part, to the cultivation of which that of our fenfi-
tive faculties fhould be merely fubfervient. But, al¬
though our pleafures are thus by nature rendered in a
great degree independent of ourfelves, ftill we have it
in our power to make them all more durable, by vary¬
ing and mixing them with one another, or by interpo-
fing between thofe that are very agreeable others that
are lefs pleafing, fo as that no individual pleafure fhall
be in excefs.
Befides the circumftances already noticed, there are
others of a very different kind, which have alfo confi-
derable influence on the pleafures of the fenfes ; fuch as
different conditions of the whole body, particularly of
the nerves, or of certain organs or functions, to which
fun ft ions fome organs of fenfe, and perhaps even the
fenfation of thefe, are in a great meafure fubfervient.
This is one of the caufes why many pleafures, which
we cultivate with all our might, cannot be immortal.
If a perfon be thirfty, fpring water is neflar to him ; if
hungry, any kind of food is agreeable, even the fmell of
food is grateful. To a man in a heat, or in a fever,
cold is pleafing ; and to one in a cold fit nothing is fo
agreeable as heat. To thefe lame perions, at other
times, fo far are thefe things from being agreeable, that
they are often difgufting. The moft decided glutton
cannot always relilh a fumptucus feaft.
Befides the fenfations excited by external objefls, there
are others alfo which caufe pain and pleafure. If the
aflion of the mufcles be ftrong, eafy, and cheerful, and
not continued fo as to fatigue us, it caufes pleafure. On
the contrary, when this aftion is attended with a fenfe
of liftleffnefs, lafiitude, difficulty, and debility, it cau¬
fes pain more or lefs. In fine, various ftates and affec¬
tions of the mind, fuch as the exercife of memory, ima¬
gination, and judgement, nearly for fimilar reafons, are
fometimes painful, at other times agreeable. “ Animi
affeftus, gui modici grate excitant, vehementes, aut
graves et diuturni, hujus pariter ac corporis vires
frangunt •, hominem interdum ftatim extinguunt, fte-
plus longa valetudine macerant. Somni etiam, quo
ad exhaullas vires reficiendas egemus, exceffus, vel de-
feflus, et animo et corpori nocet ”—“ Delidia, five
animi five corporis, utriufque vires languefcunt: ni-
mia exercitatione baud minus Iseduntur. Statuit enim
provida rerum parens, ut fingularum partium, et uni-
verfi corporis animique vires ufu roborentur et acuan-
51 ] SEN
tur ; et huic iterum certos fines pofuit: xta ut neque Semes,
quern voluit natura ufus impune otnittatur, neque ultra ^ 1 r
modum intendatur * Confpett,
“ Of fuch fenfations and feelings as are agreeable or^eiiuln'
difagreeable, we may remark,” fays Dr Reid, “ that
they differ much, not only in degree, but in kind and
in dignity. Some belong to the animal part of our na¬
ture, and are common to us with the brutes : others be¬
long to the rational and moral part. The firft are
more properly called f -nfalions, the laft feelings. The
French word fentiment is common to both.”
“ The Author of nature, in the diftribution of agree¬
able and painful feelings, hath wifely and benevolently
confulted the good of the human fpecies; and hath even
ftiewn us, by the fame means, what tenor of conduct
we ought to hold. For, firf, The painful fenfations of
the animal kind are admonitions to avoid what would
hurt us 5 and the agreeable fenfations of this kind in¬
vite us to thofe actions that are neceffary to the prefer-
vation of the individual, or of the kind. Secondly, By
the fame means nature invites us to moderate bodily
exercife, and admonifhes us to avoid idlenefs and in-
aftivity on the one hand, and exceffive labour and
fatigue upon the other. Thirdly, The moderate exer¬
cife of all our rational powers gives pleafure. Fourthly,
Every fpecies of beauty is beheld with pleafure, and
every fpecies of deformity with difgutt ; and we {hall
find all that we call beautiful, to be lomething eftim-
able, or ufeful in itfelf, or a fign of fomething that is
eftimable or ufeful. Fifthly, The benevolent affeftions
are all accompanied with an agreeable feeling, the
malevolent with the contrary. And, Sixthly, The high-
eft, the nobleft and moft durable pleafure is that of do¬
ing well and afting the part that becomes us ; and the
moft bitter and painful fentiment is the anguifh and re-
morfe of a guilty confcience.” Thefe obfervations
with regard to the economy of nature in the diftribu¬
tion of our painful and agreeable fenfations and feelings
are fo well iiluftrated by the elegant and judicious au¬
thor of Theorie des Sentiments agreables, that we deem
itmnneceffary to make any further remarks on this fub-
jeiff. (See Happiness and Pleasure.) A little re¬
flection may fatisfy us, that the number and variety of
our fenfations and feelings are prodigious. For, to
omit all thofe which accompany our appetites, pafiions,
and affections, our moral fentiments and fe-ntiments of
tafte, even our external fenfes, furnilh a great variety of
fenfations differing in kind, and almoft in every kind an
endlefs variety of degrees. Every variety we difeern,
with regard to tafte, fmell, found, colour, heat, and cold,
and in the tangible qualities of bodies, is indicated by a
fenfation correfponding to it.
The moft general and the moft important divifion of
our fenfations and feelings is into the agreeable, the dif-
agreeable, and the indifferent. Every thing we call
pleafure, happinefs, or enjoyment, on the one hand ?
and, on the other, every thing we call mifery, pain, or
uneafinefs, is fenfation or feeling : For no man can for
the prefent be more happy, or more miferable, than he
feels himfelf to be. He cannot be deceived with regard
to the enjoyment or fuffering of the prefent moment.
But, befides the fenfations that are agreeable or dif¬
agreeable, there is ftill a greater number that are indif¬
ferent. To thefe we give fo little attention, that they
havq no name, and are immediately forgotten as if they .
had
SEN
Senfes had never been j it even requires attention to the opera-
c H tions of our minds to be convinced of their exiftence.
l^Ll1 For this end we may obferve, that to a good ear every
human voice is diitingulfhable from ail others. Some
voices are pleafant, fome diiagreeable •, but the far
greater part cannot be faid to one or the other. The
fame thing may be faid of other founds, and no lefs of
taftes, fmells, and colours; and if we confider, that our
fenfes are in continual exercife while we are awake,
that fome fenfation attends every obje£t they prefent to
us, and that familiar objects feldom raife any emotion
pleafant or painful ) we fhall fee reafon, befides the
agreeable and difagreeable, to admit a third clafs of fen-
fations, that may be called indifferent. But thefe fen-
fations- that are indifferent are far from being ufelefs.
They ferve as ligns to diftinguiih things that differ ;
r.nd the information we have concerning things external
comes by thefe means. Thus, if a man had not a rau-
ffcal ear fo as to receive pleafure from the harmony or
melody of founds, he would ftill find the fenfe of hear¬
ing of great utility. Though founds gave him neither
pleafure nor pain, of themfelves, they would give him
much ufeful information ; and the fame may be faid of
the fenfations we have by all the other fenfes.
SENSIBLE note, in Mufic, is that which conffi-
lutes a third major above the dominant, and a femi-
tone beneath the tonic. -SV, or B, is the fenfible note
in the tone of ut or C fol % ; or G fiiarp, in the tone of
la or A.
They call it the fenfible note on this account, that it
caufes to be perceived the tone or natural feries of the
key and the tonic itfelf \ upon which, after the chord
of the dominant, the fenfible note taking the fhortefi:
road, is under a neceffity of rifing •, which has made
fome authors treat this fenfible note as a major diffo-
nance, for want of obferving, that diffonance, being a
relation, cannot be conftituted unlefs by two notes be¬
tween which it fubfifts.
It is not meant that the fenfible note is the feventh of
the tone, becaufe, in the minor mode, this feventh can¬
not be a fenfible note but in afcending ; for, in defcend-
-ing, it is at the diilance of a full note from the tonic,
and of a third minor from the dominant.
SENSIBILITY, is a nice and delicate perception of
pleafure or pain, beauty or deformity. It is very near¬
ly allied to tafte ; and, as far as it is natural, feems to
depend upon the organization of the nervous fyfiem.
It is capable, however, of cultivation, and is experien¬
ced in a much higher degree in civilized than in favage
nations, and among perfons liberally educated than
among boors and illiterate mechanics. The man who
has cultivated any of the fine arts has a much quicker,
and more exquifite perception of beauty and deformity
in the execution of that art, than another of equal or
even greater natural powers, who has but cafually in-
fpefled its productions. He who has been long accuf-
tomed to that decorum of manners which charafterizcs
the polite part of the woild, perceives almoft inftantane-
oufiy the fmalleft deviation from it, and feels himfelf al¬
moft as much hurt by behaviour harmlefs in itfelf, as by
the groffeft rudenefs ; and the man who has long pro¬
ceeded fteadily in the paths of virtue, and often painted
to himfelf the deformity of vice, and the mi feries of
which it is produdlive, is more quickly alarmed at any
deviation from re£litude, than another who, though his
4
SEN
life has been flamed by no crime, has yet thought lefs Senfibility.
upon the principles of virtue and confequences of vice.
Every thing which can be called fenfibility, and is
not born with man, may be refolved into affociation,
and is to be regulated accordingly ^ for fenfibilities may
be acquired which are inimical to happinefs and to the
praftice of virtue. The man is not to be envied who
lias fo accuftomed himfelf to the forms of polite addrefs
as to be hurt by the unaffefled language and manners of
the honefl peafant, with whom he may have occafion
to tranfacl bufinefs; nor is he likely to acquire much
ufeful knowledge who has fo feduloufiy fludied the
beauties of compofilion as to be unable to read without
difguft a book of fcience or of hitlory, of which the ftyle
comes not up to his ftandard of perfeftion. That fen-
fibiiity which we either have from nature, or neceffarily
acquire, of the miferies of others, is of the greatefl ufe
when properly regulated, as it powerfully impels us
to relieve their diftrefs \ but if it by any means become
fo exquifite as to make us ftiun the fight of mifery, it
counteracts the end for which it was implanted in our
nature, and only deprives us of happinefs, while it con¬
tributes nothing to the good of others. Indeed there
is reafon to believe that all fuch extreme fenfibilities are
felfifh affeftations, employed as apologies for withholding
from the miferable that relief which it is in our power
to give \ for there is not a facl better eftablifhed in the
fcience of human nature, than that pafiive perceptions
grow gradually weaker by repetition, while active ha¬
bits daily acquire (Length.
It is of great importance to a literary man to culti¬
vate his tafte, becaufe, it is the fource of much elegant
and refined pleafure, (fee Taste) } but there is a de¬
gree of faftidioufnefs which renders that pleafure impof-
fible to be obtained, and is the certain indication of ex¬
piring letters. It is neceffary to fubmlt to the artificial
rules of politenefs, for they tend to promote the peace
and harmony of fcciety, and are fometimes a ufeful fub-
flitute for moral virtue j but he wht) with refpeft to
them has fo much fenfibility as to be difgufted with all
whofe manners are not equally poliftied with his own, is
a very troublefome member of lociety. It is every man’s
duty to cultivate his moral fenfibilities, fo as to make
them fubfervient to the purpofes for which they were
given to him \ but if he either feel, or pretend to feel,
the miferies of others to fo exquifite a degree as to be
unable to afford them the relief which they have a right
to expeft, his fenfibilities are of no good tendency.
That the man of true fenfibility has more pains and
more pleafures than the callous wretch, is univerfally ad- ■
mitted, as well as that his enjoyments and fufferings are
more exquifite in their kinds *, and as no man lives for
himfelf alone, no man will acknowledge his want of
fenfibility, or exprefs a with that his heart were callous.
It is, however, a matter of fome moment to diftinguifti
real fenfibilities from ridiculous affectations \ thofe which
tend to increafe the fum of human happinefs from fuch
as have a contrary tendency*; and to cultivate them all in
fuch a manner as to.make them anfwer the ends for
which they were implanted in us by the beneficent Au¬
thor of nature. This can be done enly by watching
over them as over other affociations, (fee Metaphysics,
N° 98.) ; for excefiive fenfibiliiy, as it is not the gift
of nature, is the bane of human happinefs. “ T00 much
tendernefs (as Ilouffcau well obferves) proves the bitter-
[ 152 1
c
SEN
Senfitive. cfl curfe inftead of the mod fruitful blefling
c—- anct difappointraent are its certain confequences. 1 he
temperature of the air, the change of the feafons, the
brilliancy of the fun, or thicknefs of the fogs, are fo
many moving fprings to the unhappy pofftflbr, and he
becomes the wanton fport of their arbitration.”
SENSITIVE-plant, See Mimosa, Dion^ea, and
Hedysarum, Botany Index
The fenfitive plants are well known to poffefs a kind
of motion, by which the leaves and ftalks are contrafted
and fall down on being ilightly touched, or ihaken with
fome degree of violence.
The contraction of the leaves and branches of the
fenfitive plant when touched, is a very Angular phenome¬
non. Different hypothefes have been formed by bota-
nifts in order to explain it; but we are difpofed to be¬
lieve that thefe have generally been deduced rather from
analogical reafoning than from a collection of faCts and
obfervations. We fhall therefore give an account ot all
the important faCts which we have been able to colleCl
upon this curious fubjeCt 5 and then draw fuch conclu-
fions as obvioufly refult from them, without, however, at¬
tempting to fupport any old, or to eftablilh a new, hy-
pothefis.
1. It is difficult to touch the leaf of a healthy fenfi¬
tive plant fo delicately that it will not immediately col-
lapfe, the foliola or little leaves moving at their bafe
till they come into contaft, and then applying them-
felves clofe together. If the leaf be touched with a
little more force, the oppofite leaf will exhibit the fame
appearance. If a little more force be applied, the par¬
tial footftalks bend down towards the common foot-
ftalk from which they iffue, making with it a more acute
angle than before. If the touch be more violent ftill,
all the leaves fituated on the fame fide with the one
that has been touched will inftantly collapfe, and the
partial footftalk will approach the common footftalk to
which it is attached, in the fame manner as the partial
footftalk of the leaf approaches the ftem or branch
from which it iffues j fo that the whole plant, from ha¬
ving its branches extended, will immediately appear like
a weeping birch.
2. Thefe motions of the plant are performed by means
of three diftinft and fenfible articulations. The firft,
that of the foliola or lobes to the partial footftalk j the
fecond, that of the partial footftalk to the common one;
the third, that of the common footftalk to the trunk.
The primary motion of all which is the clofing of the
leaf upon the partial footftalk, which is performed in
a fimilar manner, and by a fimilar articulation. This,
however, is much lefs vifible than the others. Thefe
motions are wholly independent on one another, as may
be proved by experiment. It appears that if the par¬
tial footftalks are moved, and collapfe toward the petioli,
or thefe toward the trunk, the little leaves, -whofe
motion is ufually primary to thefe, fhould be affefted
alfo •, yet experiment proves that it is poffible to touch
the footftalks in fuch a manner as to affeft them only,
and make them aoply themfelves to the trunk, while
the leaves feel nothing of the touch ■, but this cannot
be, unlefs the footftalks are fo difpofed as that they can
fall to the trunk, without fuffering their leaves to touch
any part of the plant in their paffage, becaufe, if they do,
they are immediately affedfted.
3. Winds and heavy rains make the leaves of the fen-
Vol. XIX. Part I.
153 1 s E N . .
vexation fitive plant contrail and clofe j but no fuch effect is
produced from flight ffiowrers.
4. At night, or when expofed to much cold in the
day, the leaves meet and clofe in the fame manner as
when touched, folding their upper furfaces together,
and in part over each other, like fcales or tiles, fo as to
expofe as little as poflible of the upper furface to the
air. The oppofite fides of the leaves (foliola) do not
come clofe together in the night, for when touched they
apply themfelves clofer together. Dr Darwin kept a
fenfitive plant in a dark place for fome hours after day¬
break 5 the leaves and footftalks were collapfed as in
its moft profound fleep 5 and, on expofing it to the light,
above 20 minutes paffed before it was expanded.
5. In the month of Auguft, a fenfitive plant was
carried in a pot out of its ulual place into a dark cave,
the motion that it received in the carriage thut up its
leaves, and they did not open till 24 hours afterwards ;
at this time they became moderately open, but were af¬
terwards fubjeft to no changes at night or morning, but
remained three days and nights with their leaves in the
fame moderately open ftate. At the end of this time
they were brought out again into the air, and there re¬
covered their natural periodical motions, {hutting every
night, and opening every morning, as naturally and as
ftrongly as if the plant had not been in this forced ftate \
and while in the cave, it was obferved to be very little
lefs affedled with the touch than when abroad in the
Setifitive.
open air,
^ 6. The great heats of fummer, when there is open
funfhine at noon, affeft the plant in fome degree like
cold, caufing it to ftrut up its leaves a little, but never
in any very great degree. The plant, however, is lead
of all affefted about nine o’clock in the morning, and
that is confequently the propereft time to make experi¬
ments on it. A branch of the fenfitive plant cut oft,
and laid by, retains yet its property of {hutting up and
opening in the morning for fome days j and it holds it
longer if kept with one end in w'ater, than if left to
dry more fuddenly.
7. The leaves only of the fenfitive plant ffiut up in the
night, not the branches) and if it be touched at this
time, the branches are affefted in the fame manner as
in the day, {hutting up, or approaching to the ftalk or
trunk, in the fame manner, and often wuth more force.
It is of no confequence what the fubftance is wfith which
the plant is touched, it anfwers alike to all ; but there
may be obferved a little fpot, diftinguiffiable by its paler
colour in the articulations of its leaves, where the great-
eft and niceft fenfibility is evidently placed.
8. Duhamel having obferved, about the 15th of
September, in moderate weather, the natural motion
of a branch of a fenfitive plant, remarked, that at nine
in the morning it formed with the ftem an angle of 100
degrees; at noon, 112 degreees ; at three afternoon, it
returned to ico; and after touching the branch, the
angle was reduced to 90. Three quarters of an hour
after it had mounted to 112 ^ and, at eight at nighty it
defeended again, without being touched, to 90. The
day after, in finer weather, the fame branch, at eight
in the morning, made an angle of 135 degrees with the
ftem ; after being touched, the angle was diminifiied to
•80 5 an hour after, it rofe again to 1355 being touch¬
ed a fecond time, it defeended again to 80 j an hour
and a half after, it had rifen to 145 } and on being
U- touched
SEN [15
.Senfitive, touched a third time, defcended to 135 ; and remained
in that pofition till five o’clock in the afternoon, when
being touched a fourth time it fell to no.
9. The parts of the plants which have collapfed af¬
terwards unfold themfelves, and return to their former
expanded flate. The time required for that purpofe
vanes, according to the vigour of the plant, the feafon
of the year, the hour of the day, the Hate of the at-
mofphere. Sometimes half an hour is requifite, fome-
times only ten minutes. The order in which the parts
recover themfelves varies in like manner : fometimes it
is the common footftalk ; fometimes the rib to which
the leaves are attached ; and fometimes the leaves them¬
felves are expanded, before the other parts have made
any attempt to be reinftated in their former pofition.
10. If, without (baking the other fmaller leaves, we
cut off the halt of a leaf or lobe belonging to the lad:
pair, at the extremity or fummit of a wing, the leaf
cut,, and its antagonist, that is to fay, the firft pair,
begin to approach each other ; then the fecond, and fo
on iucceffively, till all the leffer leaves, or lobes of that
wing, have collapfed in like manner. Frequently, af¬
ter. 12 or 15 feconds, the lobes of the other wings,
wmich were not immediately alfc6ted by the ftroke, (hut;
whild; the dalk and its wing, beginning at the bottom,
and proceeding in order to the top, gradually recover
themfelves. If, indead of one of the lefl'er extreme
leaves, we cut off one belonging to the pair that is next
the footdalk, its antagonid (huts, as do the other pairs
fucceffively, from the bottom to the top. If all the
leaves of one fide of a wing be cut oft', the. oppofite
leaves are not affedled, but remain expanded. With
icme addrefs, it is qioffible even to cut off a branch
without hurting the leaves, or making them fall. The
common footftalk of the winged leaves being cut as
far as three-fourths of its diameter, all the parts which
hang down collapfe, but quickly recover without ap¬
pearing to have fuffered any confiderable violence by
the (hock. An incifion being made into one of the prin¬
cipal branches to the depth of one half the diameter,
the branches fttuated betwixt the feflion and the root
will fall down ; thofe above the incifion remain as be¬
fore, and the leffer leaves continue open 5 but this di¬
rection is foon deftroyed, by cutting off one of the
lobes at the extremity, as was obferved above. Laftly,
a whole wing being cut off with precaution near its in-
fertion into the common footftalk, the other wdngs are
not affeded by it, and its own lobes do not (hut. No
motion enfues from piercing the branch with a needle or
other (harp inftrument.
11. If the end of one of the leaves be burned with
the flame of a candle, or by a burning glafs, or by
touching it with hot iron, it clofes up in a moment, and
the oppofite leaf does the fame, and after that the
whole feries of leaves on each fide of the partial or
little footftalk ; then the footftalk itfelf; then the branch
or common footftalk 5 all do the fame, if the burning
has been in a fufficient degree. This proves that there
is a very nice communication between all the parts of
the plant, by means of which the burning, which only
is applied to the extremity of one leaf, diffufes its influ¬
ence through every part of the (hrub. If a drop of
aquafortis be carefully laid upon a leaf of the fenfitive
plant, fo as not to (hake it in the leaft, the leaf does
not begin to move till the acrid liquor corrodes the fub-
+ ]
dance of
SEN
, - , but 'f tllat time> I'ot only pnicular Smlitivf.
lea., but all the leaves placed on the fame footftalk,-v~~~
dole ^ themfelves up. I he vapour of burning fulphur
has alfo this effect on many leaves at once, according as
they are moie or lefs expofed to it 5 but a bottle of
very acrid and fulphureous fpirit of vitriol, placed
under, the branches unftopped, produces no fuch effeft.
Wetting tlie leaves with (pirit of wine has been obferved
alio to have no effeft, nor the rubbing oil of almonds
over them ; though this laft application deftroys many
plants. J
I rom the preceding experiments the following con-
cmfions may be fairly drawn : 1. The contraction of
the paits of the fenfitive plant is occafioned by an exter¬
nal foice, and the contraction is in proportion to the
force. 2. All bodies which can exert any force affeCt
the fenfitive plant j fome by the touch or by agitation,
as the wind, rain, &c. ; fome by chemical influence, as
heat and cold. 3. Touching or agitating the plant pro¬
duces a greater effea than an incifion or cutting off a
part, or by applying heat or cold.
Attempts have been made to explain thefe curious
phenomena. Dr Darwin, in the notes to his admired
poem, entitled, 17ie Botanic Garden, lays it down as a
principle, that “ the fleep of animals confifts in a fuf-
penfion of voluntary motion j and as vegetables are fub-
jeCt to fleep as well as animals, there is reafon to con¬
clude (fays he) that the various aftion of clofing their
petals and foliage may be juftly aferibed to a voluntary
power j for without the faculty of volition fleep would
not have been neceffary to them.” Whether this defi¬
nition of fleep when applied to animals be juft, we (hall
not inquire ; but it is evident the fuppofed analogy be¬
tween the fieep of animals and the deep of plants has
led Dr Darwin to admit this aftonilhing conclufion, that
points have volition. As volition preiuppofes a mind or
loul, it were to be wifhed that he had given us fome in¬
formation concerning the nature of a vegetable foul,
which can think and will. We fafpeCf, however, that
this vegetable foul will turn out to be a mere mechani¬
cal or chemical one ; for it is affe&ed by external forces
uniformly in the fame way, its volition is merely paflive,
and never makes any fuccefsful refiftance agninft thofe
caufes by which it is influenced. All this is a mere
abufe of words. The fleep of plants is a metaphorical
expreflion, and has not the leaft refemblance to the
fleep of animals. Plants are faid to deep when the
dowers or leaves are contra<fted or folded together j but
we never heard that there is any fimilar contra&ion in
the body of an animal during fleep.
The fibres of vegetables have been compared with
the mufcles of animals, and the motions of the fenfitive
plant have been fuppofed the fame with mufcular motion.
Between the fibres of vegetables and the mufcles of ani¬
mals, however, there is not the leaft fimilarity. If mufcles
be cut through, fo as to be feparated from the joints
to which they are attached, their powers are completely
deftroyed ; but this is not the cafe with vegetable fibres.
The following very ingenious experiment, which was
communicated to us by a refpefhble member of the
Univerfity of Edinburgh, is decifive on this fubjeft.
He fele&ed a growing poppy at that period of its
growth, before unfolding, when the head and neck are
bent down almcft double. He cut the ftalk where it
was curved half through on the under fide, and half
through
S E N T 155 ] SEN
Sentence, tlirougli at a fmall cliftance on the upper fide, and half
v." V'—^— through in the middle point between the two fe&ions,
(o that the ends of the fibres were feparated from the
Italic-. Notwithllanding thefe feveral cuttings on the
neck, the poppy raifed its head, and aflumed a more
ete£t pofition. There is, therefore, a complete diltinc-
tion between mufcular motion and the motions of a plant,
for no motion can take place in the limb of an animal
when the mufcles of that limb are cut.
In fine, we look upon all attempts to explain the
motions of plants as abfurd, and all reafoning from fup-
poied analogy between animals and vegetables as the
fource of wild conjeclure, and not of found philofophy.
We view the contraftion and expanfion of the fenfitive
plant in the fame light as we do gravitation, chemical
attraction, electricity, and magnetifm, as a fingular fact,
the circumftances of which we may be fully acquainted
with, but mult defpair of underltanding its caufe.
What has been faid under this article chiefly refers to
the mimofa fcnfitha and pudica. For a full account of
the motions of vegetables in general, fee Vegetable Mo¬
tion, under the article Motion.
SENTENCE, in Law, a judgement paffed in court
by the judge in fome procefs, either civil or criminal.
See Judgement.
Sentence, in Grammar, denotes a period, or a fet
of words comprehending fome perfect fenfe or fenti-
ment of the mind. The bufinefs of pointing is to di-
Itinguifh the feveral parts and members of fentences, fo
as to render the fenfe thereof as clear, diftinCt, and full
as pofiible. See Punctuation.
In every fentence there are two parts necelfarily re¬
quired ; a noun for the fubjeCt, and a definite verb :
whatever is found more than thefe two, aflfefts one of
them, either immediately, or by the intervention of fome
other, whereby the firft is affeCted.
Again, every fentence is either fimple or compound :
a fimple fentence is that confiding of one fingle fub-
jcCt, and one finite verb.—A compound fentence con¬
tains feveral fubjeCIs and finite verbs, either exprefsly
or implicitly.
A fimple fentence needs no point or diftin&ion ; only
a period to clofe it : as, “ A good man loves virtue
for itfelf.”—In fuch a fentence, the feveral adjuncts af-
feft either the fubjeft or the verb in a different man¬
ner. Thus the word good expreffes the quality of the
fubjeft, virtue the objeft of the a&ion, and for itfelf
the end thereof.—Now none of thefe adjuncts can be
ieparated from the reft of the fentence : for if one be,
why ftiould not all the reft ? and if all be, the fentence
will be minced into almoft as many parts as there are
words.
But if feveral adjunfts be attributed in the fame man¬
ner either to the fubjeft or the verb, the fentence be¬
comes compound, and is to be divided into parts.
In every compound fentence, as many fubje&s, or as
many finite verbs as there are, either exprefsly or im¬
plied, fo many diftinftions may there be. Thus, “ My
hopes, fears, joys, pains, all centre in you.” And thus
Gicero. Catilina abut, excejjit, evajit, erupit.—The reafon of
which pointing is obvious ; for as many fubjedts or fi¬
nite verbs as there are in a fentence, fo many members
does it really contain. Whenever, therefore, there oc¬
cur more nouns than verbs, or contrariwife, they are
to be conceived as equal. Since, as every fubjedt re¬
quires its verbs, fo eveiy verb requires its fubjedt, where- Senilcofe
with it may agree: excepting, perhaps, in fome fIgu-SQnt.T ent.
rative expreftions. , ~ ~ ‘ T
SENTICOSAi, (from fentis, a “ biiar or bramble”)
the name of the 35th order in Linnaeus’s fragments of
a natural method, confifting of rofe, bramble, and other
plants, which refemble them in port and external ftruc-
ture. See Botany, Natural Method.
SENTIMENT, according to Lord Kames, is a term
appropriated to fuch thoughts as are prompted by paf-
fion. It differs from a perception ; for a perception fig-
nifies the adt by which we become confcious of external
objedfs. It differs from confcioufnefs of an internal adfion,
fuch as thinking, fufpending thought, inclining, refol-
ving, willing, &c. And it differs from the conception
of a relation among objedts; a conception of that kind
being termed opinion,
SENTIMENTS, in Poetry. To talk in the lan¬
guage of mufic, each paflion has a certain tone, to
which every fentiment proceeding from it ought to be
tuned with the greateft accuracy : which is no eafy
wTork, efpecially where fuch harmony ought to be fup-
ported during the courfe of a long theatrical reprefenta-
tion. In order to reach fuch delicacy of execution, it
is necefiary that a writer affume the precife charadler
and pafiion of the perfonage reprefented ; which requires
an uncommon genius. But it is the only difficulty ; for
the writer, who, annihilating himfelf, can thus become
another perfon, need be in no pain about the fentiments
that belong to the affumed charadler: thefe will flow
without the leaft ftudy, -or even preconception ; and
will frequently be as delightfully new to himfelf as to
his reader. But if a lively pidlure even of a fingle
emotion require an effort of genius, how much greater
the effort to compofe a paffionate dialogue with as many
different tones of paflion as there are fpeakers ? With
what dudlility of feeling muft that writer be endued,
who approaches perfedtion in fuch a work •, when it is
neceffary to affume different and even oppofite charac¬
ters and paflions in the quickeft fucceflion ? Yet this
work, difficult as it is, yields to that of compofing a
dialogue in genteel comedy, exhibiting charadlers with¬
out paflion. The reafon is, that the different tones of cha-
radier are more delicate, and lefs in fight, than thofe of
pafiion ; and, accordingly, many writers, who have no
genius for drawing charadlers, make a fhift to repre-
fent, tolerably well, an ordinary paflion in its fimple
movements. But of all works of this kind, what is
truly the moft difficult, is a charadleriftical dialogue
upon any phiiofophical fubjedl; to interweave charac¬
ters with reafoning, by fuiting to the charadfer of each
fpeaker a peculiarity not only of thought but of expref-
fion, requires the perfedfion of genius, tafte, and judge¬
ment.
How difficult dialogue-writing is, will be evident,
even without reafoning, from the mlferable compofitions
of that kind found without number in all languages.
The art of mimicking any Angularity in geflure or in
voice, is a rare talent, though diredfed by firht and
hearing, the acuteft and moft lively of our external
fenfes : how much more rare muft that talent, of imhat-
ing charadlers and internal emotions, tracing all their
different tints, and reprefenting them in a lively manner
b> natural fentiments properly exprelfed ? The truth is,
fuch execution is too delicate for an ordinary genius •
U 2 and
Sentiment*.
SEN [ i
Sentiments, and for that reafon the bulk of writers, inftcad of ex-
v preffing a paflion as one does who feels it, content
themfelves with defcribing it in the language of a fpec-
iator. To awake paflion by an internal effort merely,
without any external caufe, requires great fenfibility j
and yet that operation is neceffary, not lefs to the wri¬
ter than to the aftor; becaufe none but thofe wrho ac¬
tually feel a paffion can reprefent it to the life. The
writer’s part is the more complicated : he muff add
compofftion to paffion : and muff, in the quickeft luc-
ceflion, adopt every different character. Eut a very
humble flight of imagination may ferve to convert a
writer into a fpectator, fo as to figure, in fome obfcure
manner, an adtion as paffing in his fight and hearing.
In that figured fituation, being led naturally to write
like a fpeblator, he entertains his readers with his owm
retledlions, with cool defcription, and florid declama¬
tion ; inftead of making them eye-witneffes, as it were,
to a real event, and to every movement of genuine paf¬
fion. Thus moft of our plays appear to be caff in the
fame mould •, perfonages without character, the mere
outlines of paffion, a tirefome monotony, and a pompous
declamatory ffyle.
Ihis defcriptive manner of reprefenting paflion is a
very cold entertainment j our fympathy is not raifed
by defcription wx muff firft be lulled into a dream of
reality, and every thing muff appear as pafling in our
fight. Unhappy is the player of genius who afts a part
in w'hat may be termed a defcriptive tragedy; after af-
fuming the very paflion that is to be reprelented, how
is he cramped in adtion, when he muff utter, not the
fentiments of the paflion he feels, but a cold defcription
in the language of a byftander ? It is that imperfec¬
tion, undoubtedly, in the bulk of our plays, which con¬
fines our llage almoft entirely to Shakefpeare, notwith-
llanding his many irregularities. In our late Englilh
tragedies, we fometimes find fentiments tolerably w'ell
adapted to a plain paflion : but we muff not in any of
them expedt a fentiment expreflive of charadfer: and,
upon that very account, our late performances of the
dramatic kind are for the moff part intolerably in-
fipid.
Eut it may be proper to illuffrate this fubjedf by ex¬
amples. The firft examples {hall be of fentiments that
appear the legitimate offspring of paflion ; to which
fliall be oppoled w'hat are defcriptive only, and illegiti¬
mate 5 and in making this comparifon, the inftances iliall
be borrowed from Shakefpeare and Corneille, who for
genius in dramatic compofition Hand uppermoft in the
rolls of fame.
I. Shakelpeare (hall furnifh the firft example, being
of fentiments didlated by a violent and perturbed pal-
.fion :
Lear. -—  —  —Filial ingratitude !
Is it not as if this mouth fliould tear this hand
For lifting food to’t r—But I’ll puniflr home ;
No, I will weep no more.———In fuch a night,
To (hut me out!- -Pour on, I will endure.
In fuch a night as this! O Regan, Gonerill,
Your old kind father, whofe frank heart gave all—
O ! that way madnefs lies; let me Ihun that)
Jtfo more of that.    
Kent. Good, my lord, enter here.
Lear. Prithee, go in thyfdf, feek thine own cafe,
56 J SEN
This tempeft will not give me leave to ponder
On things would hurt me more ;—but I’ll go in } ^
In, boy, go firft. You houfelefs poverty 
Nay, get tiiee in ; I’ll pray, and then I’ll fleep 
Poor naked wretches, wherefoe’er you are,
That bide the pelting of this pitilefs ftorm !
How ftiall your houleleis heads, and unfed fides,
Y our loop’d and window’d raggednefs, defend you
From feafons fuch as thefe ! O I have ta’en
Too little care of this ! take phyfic, Pomp j
Expofe thyfelf to feel what wuetches feel,
I hat thou may'it ftrake the fuperflux to them,
And fliow the heav’ns more juft.
King Lear, a61 iii. fc. 5.
With regard to the French author, truth obliges us
to acknowledge, that he deferibes in the ftyle of a fpec¬
tator, inftead of exprefling paflion like one who feels
it; which naturally betrays him into a tirefome mono¬
tony, and a pompous declamatory ftyle. It is fcarcely
neceffary to give examples, for he never varies from that
tone. vVe ftrall, however, take two paffages at a ven¬
ture, in order to be confronted with thofe tranferibed
above. In the tragedy of Cinna, after the confpiracy
was difeovered, Afmilia, having nothing in view but
racks and death to herlelf and her lover, receives a par¬
don from Auguftus, attended with the brighteft circum-
ftances of magnanimity and tendernefs. This is a lucky
fituation for reprefenting the paflions of furprife and gra¬
titude in their different flages, wEich feem naturally to
be what follow. Thefe paflions, raifed at once to the
utmoft pitch, and being at firft too big for utterance,
muft, for fome moments, be expreffed by violent gef-
tures only : fo foon as there is vent for words, the firfl:
expreflions are broken and interrupted : at laft, we
ought to expe6t a tide of intermingled fentiments, occa-
floned by the flu6luation of the mind between the tw’O
paffions. JEmilia is made to behave in a very different
manner ; with extreme coolnefs ftie deferibes her own fi¬
tuation, as if flie wrere merely a fpe61ator j or rather the
poet takes the talk off her hands :
Et je me rends, Seigneur, h ces hautes bontes:
Je recouvre la vue aupres de leurs clartes.
Je connois mon forfait qui me fembloit juftice j
Et ce que n’avoit pu la terreur du fupplice,
Je fens naitre en mon ame un repentir puiffant,
Et mon coeur en fecret me dit, qu’il y confent.
Le ciel a refolu votre grandeur fupreme;
Et pour preuve, Seigneur, je n’en veux que moi-meme»
J’ofe avec vanite me donner cet eclat,
Puifqu’il change mon coeur, qu’il veut changer 1’etat,
Ma haine va mourir, que j’ai crue immortelle ;
Elle eft morte, et ce cceur devient fujet fidele 5
Et prenant deformais cette haine en horreur,
L’ardeur de vous fervir fuccede a fa fureur.
A61 v. fc. 3.
So much in general on the genuine fentiments of paf¬
fion. We proceed to particular obfervations. And,
firft, paflions feldom continue uniform any confiderable
time : they generally flu61uate, fwelling and fubfiding
by turns, often in a quick fucceflion j and the fenti¬
ments cannot be juft unlefs they correfpond to fuch fluc¬
tuation. Accordingly, a climax never fliows better
than in exprefling a fwelling paflion : the following paf¬
fages may fuflice for an illuftralion.
Aimer ia.
SEN [157] SEN
fiVnttrreiif'j. j4Jtnci'L(l> -—■■   11 o w hafl thou charm d
The wildnefs of the waves and rocks to this j
That thus relenting they have giv’n thee back
To earth, to light and life, to love and me ?
Mourning Bride, act i. fc,
I would not be the villain that thou think’ll
For the whole fpace that’s in the tyrant’s grafp,
And the rich earth to boot.
Macbeth, a£t iv. fc. 4.
The following palTage expreffes finely the progrefs of
conviftion.
Let me not ftir, nor breathe, left I diffolve
That tender, lovely form, of painted air,
So like Almeria. Ha 1 it finks, it falls j
I’ll catch it e’er it goes, and graip her ihade.
’Tis life ! ’tis warm ! ’tis the ! ’tis (he herfelf!
It is Almeria ! ’tis, it is my wife !
Mourning Bride, aft ii. fc. 6.
In the progrefs of thought our refolutxons become
more vigorous as well as our paftions.
Va, quitte deformais le dernier des humains, Sentiment^;
Paffe pour me venger en de meilleures mains. u““*
Le Cid, aft i. fc. 7.
Thefe fentiments are certainly not the firft that are
fuggefted by the paflion of refentment. As the firlt
movements of refentment are always direfted to its ob-
ieft, the very fame is the cafe of grief. Yet with rela¬
tion to the fudden and fevere diftemper that leized
Alexander bathing in the river Cydnus, Quintus Cur-
tius deferibes the firft emotions of the army as direfted
to themfelves, lamenting that they were left without a
leader, far from home, and had fcarce any hopes of re¬
turning in fafety : their king’s dirtrefs, which muft na¬
turally have been their firft concern, occupies them but
in the fecond place according to that author. In the
Aminta of Taffo, Sylvia, upon a report of her lover’s
death, which (he believed certain, inftead of bemoaning
the lofs of her beloved, turns her thoughts upon herfelf,
and wonders her heart does not break :
Ohirne, ben fon di faftb,
Poi che quefta novella non m’uccide.
Aft iv. fc. 2.
If ever I do yield or give confent,
By any aftion, word, or thought, to wed
Another lord 5 may then juft heav’n ftiow’r down, &c.
Mourning Bride, aft i. fc. 1.
And this leads to a fecond obfervation, That the dif¬
ferent ftages of a paflion, and its different direftions,
from birth to extinftion, muft be carefully reprefented
in their order •, becaufe otherwife the fentiments, by
being mifplaced, will appear forced and unnatural.—
Refentment, for example, when provoked by an atro¬
cious injury, difeharges itfelf firft upon the author : fen¬
timents therefore of revenge come always fiift, and muft
in fome meafure be exhaufted before the perfon injured
think of grieving for himfelf. In the Cid of Corneille,
Don Diegue having been affronted in a cruel manner,
exprefles fcarcely any fentiment of revenge, but is total¬
ly occupied in contemplating-the low fituation to which
he is reduced by the affront :
O rage ! b defefpoir ! b vieilleffe ennemie !
N’ai-je done tant vecu que pour cette infamie ?
Et ne fuis-je blanchi dans les travaux guerriers,
Que pour voir en un jour fletrit tant de lauriers ?
Mon bras, qu’avec refpeft tout 1’Efpagne admire,
Mon bras qui tant de fois a fauve cet empire,
Tant de fois affermi le trbne de fon roi,
Trahit done ma querelle, et ne fait rien pour moi !
O cruel fouvenir de ma gloire paffe !
Oeuvre de tant de jours en un jour effacee !
Nouvelle dignite fatale a mon bonheur !
Precipice eleve d’ou lombe mon honneur !
Faut-il de votre eclat voir triompher le comte,
Et mourir fans vengeance, ou vivre dans la honte ?
Comte, fois de mon prince a prefent gouverneur,
Ce haut rang n’admet point un homme fans honneur }
Et ton jaloux orgueil par cet affront infigne,
Malgre le choix du roi, m’en a fu rendre indigne.
Et to:, de mes exploits glorieux inftrument,
Mais d’un corps tout de glace inutile ornement,
Fer jadis tant a eraindre, et qui dans cette offenfe,
M’as-fervi de parade, et non pas de defenfe,
In the tragedy of Jane Shore, Alicia, in the full pur-
pofe of deftroying her rival, has the following reflec¬
tion :
Oh Jealoufy ! thou bane of pleafing friendlhip,
Thou worft invader of our tender bofoms 5
How does thy rancour poifon all our foftnefs,
And turn our gentle nature into bitternefs !
See where Ihe comes ! Once my heart’s deareft blefling^
Now my chang’d eyes are blafted with her beauty,
Loathe that known face, and ficken to behold her.
Aft iii. fc. 1.
Thefe are the refleftions of a cool fpeftator. A paflion,
while it has the afeendant, and is freely indulged, fug-
gefts not to the perfon who feels it any fentiment to its
own prejudice : refieftions like the foregoing occur not
readily till the paflion has fpent its vigour.
A perfon fometimes is agitated at once by different
paflions j and the mind in that cafe, vibrating like a
pendulum, vents itfelf in fentiments that partake of the
fame vibration. This we give as a third obfervation :
Queen. Would I had never trod this Englifh earth,
Or felt the flatteries that grow upon it!
Ye’ve angels faces, but heav’n knows your hearts.
What (hall become of me now ? wretched lady !
I am the moft unhappy woman living.
Alas ! poor wenches, where are now your fortunes ?
[7b her women.
Shipwreck’d upon a kingdom, where no pity,
No friends, no hope, no kindred, weep for me :
Almoft no grave allow’d me.
Henry VIII, aft iii. fc. I.
Othello. Oh devil, devil !
If that the earth could teem with woman’s tears,
Each drop (he falls wrould prove a crocodile.
Out of my fight !
Dcfdemona. I will not ftay t’offend you. \Goingv
Lodovico. Truly, an obedient lady :
I do befeech your lordfhip, call her back.
Oth. Miftrefs——
S E N
nts; Def. My lord.
’ Oth. What would you with her, Sir >
Lod. Who, I, my lord ?
_ Oth. Ay ; you did wifli that I would make her turn.
Sir, (he can turn and turn, and yet go on ;
And turn again. And (lie can weep, Sir, weep j
And flic’s obedient : as you fay, obedient:
Very obedient—proceed you in your tears—
Concerning this, Sir,—oh well painted paflion !—•
I am commanded home—get you away,
I’ll fend for you anon—Sir, I obey the mandate,
And will return to Venice. Hence, avaunt !
[F.xit Defdemona,
Othello, a<5t iv. fc. 6.
JEmilia. Oh ! my good lord, I would fpeak a word
with you.
Othello. Yes, ’tis ./Emilia—By and by.—She’s dead.
’Tis like {he comes to fpeak of Caflio’s death ;
ihe noife was high.—Ha ! no more moving ?
otili as the grave. Shall {lie come in ? wer’t good ?
I think fhe {firs again—No—what’s the beft ?
If {he come in, {lie’l!, fare, fpeak to my wife:
My wife ! my wife ! what wife ? I have no wife 5
Oh inlupportable ! oh heavy hour !
Othello, aft v. fc. 7.
A fourth obfervation is, That nature, which gave us
paffions, and made them extremely beneficial when mo¬
derate, intended undoubtedly that they ftiould be fub-
jefted to the government of reafon and confidence. It
is therefore againft the order of nature, that paflion in
any cafe fhould take the lead in contradiftion to reafon
and confcience : fuch a Hate of mind is a fort of anarchy
which every one is afhamed of and endeavours to hide
or diflemble. Even love, however laudable, is attended
with a confcious fliame when it becomes immoderate :
it is covered from the world, and difclofed only to the
beloved objeft :
Et que 1’amour fouvent de remors combattu
Paroiflfe une foiblefle, et non une vertu.
Boileau, l'Art Poet, chant, iii. 1. 101.
O, they love leaft that let men know they love.
Two Gentleman of Verona, aft i. fc. 3.
Hence a capital rule in the reprefentation of immoderate
paltions, that they ought to be hid or diffembled as much
as poflible. And this holds in an efpecial manner with
refpeft to criminal paflions : one never counfels the com-
miflion of a crime in plain terms ; guilt muft not appear
in its native colours, even in thought; the propofal muft
be made by hints, and by reprefenting the aftion in fome
favourable light. Of the propriety of fentiment upon
fuch an occafion, Shakefpeare, in the Tctnpef, has given
us a beautiful example, in a fpeech by the ufurping duke
of Milan, advifing Sebaftian to murder his brother the
king of Naples :
Antonio. —  What might,
Worthy Sebaflian,— O, what might—no more.
And yet, methinks, I fee it in thy face
What thou fliouldft be : the occafion fpeaks thee, and
My ftrong imagination fees a crown
Dropping upon thy head. Aft ii. fc. 2.
A pifture ©f this kind, perhaps ftill finer, is exhibited
58 ] S £ N
in King John, where that tyrant folicits (aft m. fc. 5.),
Hubert to murder the young prince Arthur; but it is
too long to be inferted here.
II. As things are beft ihuftrated by their contraries,
we proceed to faulty fentiments, difdaining to be in¬
dexed for examples to any but the moft approved au-
tn.ois. i he fir ft clafs {hall confift of fentiments that ac¬
cord not with the paflion ; or, in other words, fenti¬
ments that the paflion does not naturally fuggeft. In
tne fecond clafs (hall be ranged fentiments that may be¬
long to an ordinary paflion, but unfuitable to it as^tinc-
tuied by a fingular charafter. Thoughts that properly
are not fentiments, but rather deferiptions, make a
ti.ud. oentiments tnat belong to the paflion repre-
hntcu, but aie faulty as being introduced too early or
too late, make a fourth. Vicious fentiments expofed
in their native drefs, inftead of being concealed or dif-
guifed, make a fifth. And in the kft clafs {hall be col-
lefted fentiments fuited to no charafter nor paflion, and
therefore unnatural.
. I he firjl clafs contains faulty fentiments of various
kinds, which we {hall endeavour to diftinguifti from each
other.
1. Of fentiments that are faulty by being above the
tone of the paflion, the following may ferve as an ex¬
ample :
Othello.   O my foul’s-joy !
If alter every tempeft come fuch calms,
May the winds blow till they have waken’d death :
And let the labouring bark climb hills of feas
Olympus high, and duck again as low
As hell’s from heaven ? Othello, aft ii. fc. 6.
This fentiment may be fuggefted by violent and in¬
flamed paflion ; but is not fuited to the fatisfaflion, how¬
ever great, that one feels upon efcaping danger.
2. Inftance of fentiments below the tone of the paf-
fion. Ptolemy, by putting Pcmpey to death, having
incurred the difpleafure of Csefar, was in the utmoft
dread of being dethroned : in that agitating fituation,
Corneille makes him utter a fpeech full of cool reflec¬
tion, that is in no degree expreffive of the paflion.
Ah ! fi je t’avois cm, je n’aurois pas de maitre,
Je ferois dans le trone ou le ciel m’a fait naitre ;
Mais e’eft une imprudence aflez commune aux rois,
D’ecouter trop d’avis, et fe tromper an choix.
Le Deftin les aveugle au bord du precipice,
Ou fi quelque lumiere en leur ame fe glifle,
Cette fauffe clarte dont il les eblouit,
Le plonge dans une gouffre, et puis s’evanouit.
La Mart de Pompee, aft iv. fc. 1.
3. Sentiments that agree not with the tone of the
paflion ; as where a pleafant fentiment is grafted upon
a painful paffion, or the contrary. In the following
inftances, the fentiments are too gay for a ferious paf-
fion :
No happier talk thefe faded eyes purfue •,
To read and weep is all they now can do.
Eloifa to Abelard, 1. 47.
Again ;
Heav’n firft taught letters for fome wretch’s aid,
Some bamlh’d lover, or fome captive maid :
s & N L 150 J S E 1st
Sentiment!. They live, thsy fpeak, they breathe what love infpires,
vr* ' Warm fiom ihe foul, and faithful to its fires }
The virgin’s wifli without her fears impart,
Excufe the biuih, and pour cut all the heart;
Speed ihe foft intercourfe from foul to foul,
And waft a figh from Indus to the pole.
Eloifa to Abelard, 3.
Thefe thoughts are pretty : they fuit Pope, but not
Eloifa.
Satan, enraged by a threatening of the angel Gabriel,
anfw’ers thus :
Then when I am thy captive, talk of chains,
Proud limitary cherub ; but ere then
Far heavier load thyfelf expect to feel
From my prevailing arm, though heaven’s King
Ride on thy wings, and thou with thy compeers,
Us’d to the yoke, draw’ll his triumphant wheels
In progrefs thro’ the road of heav’n Jlar pav'd.
Faradife LoJ}, book iv.
The concluding epithet forms a grand and delightful
image, which cannot be the genuine offspring of rage.
4. Sentiments too artificial for a ferious palhon. The
firlt example is a fpeech of Percy expiring.
O, Harry, thou haft robb’d me of my growth :
I better brook the lofs of brittle life,
Than thofe proud titles thou haft won of me :
They wound my thoughts worfe than thy fword my
flefti.
But thought’s the flave of life, and life time’s fool j
And time, that takes furvey of all the wmrld,
Muft have a flop.
Eirjl Part, Henry IV. a£I v. fc. 9.
The fentiments of the Mourning Bride are for the
moft part no lefs delicate than juft copies of nature : in
the following exception the pidlure is beautiful, but too
artful to be fuggefted by fevere grief.
A/rneria. O no ! Time gives increafe to my afflic¬
tions.
The circling hours, that gather all the woes
Which are diffus’d through the revolving year,
Come heavy laden with th’ oppreffive weight
To me ; with me, fucceffively, they leave
The fighs, the tears, the groans, the reftlefs cares,
And all the damps of grief, that did retard their flight 5
They flrake their downy wungs, and fcatter all
The dire colledled dews on my poor head ;
Then fly with joy and fwiftnefs from me. Aft i. fc. 1.
p* es, yes, I know to mourn : I’ll fluice this heart, Sentmerts,
The fource of wo, and let the torrent in. ' v~—'
Aft v. fc. IT.
Pope’s elegy to the memory of an unfortunate lady,
expreffes delicately the moft tender concern and forrow
that one can reel for the deplorable fate of a perfon of
worth. Such a poem, deeply ferious and pathetic, re-
jefts with difdain all fiftion. Upon that account, the
following paffage deferves no quarter ; for it is not the
language of the heart, but of the imagination indulging
its flights at eafe, and by that means is eminently dif-
cordant wuth the fubjeft. It would be a ftill more fe-
yere cenfure, if it fliould be aferibed to imitation, copy¬
ing indifcreetly what has been faid by others :
What though no weeping loves thy afties grace,
IN or pohih d marble emulate thy face ?
What though no facred earth allow thee room,
Nor hallow’d dirge be mutter’d o’er thy tomb ?
et thall thy grave with rifing flow’rs be dreft,
And the green turf lie lightly on thy breaft :
There fhall the morn her earlieft tears beftovv,
There the firft rofes of the year {hall blow 5
While angels with their filver wings o’erfhade
The ground, now facred by thy relict made.
5. Fanciful or finical fentiments. Sentiments that
degenerate into point or conceit, however they may
amufe in an idle hour, can never be the offspring of any
ferious or important paffion. In the Jerufalem of Taffo,
Tancred, after a Angle combat, fpent wuth fatigue and
lofs of blood, falls into a fwoon j in which fituation, un-
derftood to be dead, he is difeovered by Erminia, who
w7as in love wuth him to diftraftion. A more happy
fituation cannot be imagined, to raife grief in an inftant
to its higheft pitch 3 and yet, in venting her forrow7, fhe
defeends moft abominably into antithefis and conceit
even of the loweft kind :
E in lui verso d’inefficabil vena
Lacrime, e voce di fofpiri mifta.
In che mifero punto hor qui me men a
Fortuna ? a che veduta amara e trifta ?
Dopo gran tempo i’ ti ritrovo a pena
Tancredi, e ti riveggio, e non fon villa
Vifta non fon da te, benche prefente
T’ trovando ti perdo eternamente.
Canto xix. ft. 105=
Armida’s lamentation refpefting her lover Rinaldo is in
the fame vicious tafte. Vid. canto xx. flan. 124, 125,
126.
In the fame play, Almeria feeing a dead body, wdrich
fhe took to be Alphonfo’s, expreffes fentiments {trained
and artificial, which nature fuggefts not to any perfon
upon fuch an occafion :
Flad they or hearts or eyes, that did this deed ?
Could eyes endure to guide fuch cruel hands ?
Are not my eyes guilty alike with theirs,
I hat thus can gaze, and yet not turn to ftone ?
—I do not weep ! The fprings of tears are dry’d,
And of a fudden I am calm, as if
All things were well 3 and yet my hufband’s mur-
der’cl!
Queen. Give me no help in lamentation,
I am not barren to bring forth complaints :
All fprings reduce their currents to mine eyes,
That I, being govern’d by the wat’ry moon,
May fend forth plenteous tears to drown the world,
Ah, for my hufband, for my dear lord Edward.
King Richard III. aft ii. fc. 2,
Jane Shore utters her laft breath in a witty conceit:
Then all is well, and I {hall fleep in peace 
’Tis very dark, and I have loft you now 
Was there not fomething I would have bequeath’d you ?
But:
[Dies.
Aft v.
jfio ] SEN
Font infenfiblement % mon inimitie
Succeder———Je ferois fenfjble a la pitie }
sithalie, aft ii. fc. 7.
Sentm'ier.tsi.
SEN
■Sentiments. But I have nothing left me to bellow,
Nothing but one fad figh. Oh mercy, Heav’n !
Guilford to Lady Jane Gray, when both were con¬
demn’d to die :
Thou Hand’d: unmov’d ;
Calm temper fits upon thy beauteous brow;
Thy eyes that flow’d fo fad for Edward’s lofs,
Gaze unconcern’d upon the ruin round thee,
As if thou had’d refolv’d to brave thy fate,
And triumph in the midd of defolation.
Ha ! fee, it fwells, the liquid crydal rifes,
It darts in fpite of thee——but I will catch it,
Nor let the earth be w^et with dew fo rich.
Lady Jane Gray, aft iv. near the end.
The concluding fentiment is altogether finical, unfuit-
able to the importance of the occafion, and even to the
dignity of the paflion of love.
Corneille, in his Ex a men of the Cid, anfwering an ob¬
jection, That his fentiments are fometimes too much re¬
fined for perfons in deep didrefs, obferves, that if poets
did not indulge fentiments more ingenious or refined than
are prompted by paflion, their performances would of¬
ten be low, and extreme grief would never fugged but
exclamations merely. This is in plain language to al-
fert, that forced thoughts are more agreeable than thofe
that are natural, and ought to be preferred.
The fecond clafs is of fentiments that may belong to.an
ordinary paflion, but are not perfeftly concordant with
it, as tinftured by a Angular charafter.
In the lad aft of that excellent comedy The Carelefs
Hujband, Lady Eafy, upon Sir Charles’s reformation,
is made to exprefs more violent and turbulent fenti¬
ments of joy than are confident with the mildnefsof her
charafter.
Lady Eafy. O the foft treafure! O the dear re¬
ward of long-defiring love.—T hus! thus to have you
mine, is fomething more than happinefs; ’tis double life,
and madnefs of abounding joy.
The following indances are defcriptions rather than
fentiments, which compofe a third clafs.
Of this defcriptive manner of painting the paflions,
there is in the EUppolytus of Euripides, aft v. an illudri-
ous indance, viz. the fpeech of Thefeus, upon hearing of
his fon’s difmal exit. In Racine’s tragedy of Efher, the
queen hearing of the decree iffued againd her people,
mdead of expreflxng fentiments fuitable to the occafion,
turns her attention upon herfelf, and defcribes wTith ac¬
curacy her own fituation.
Jude ciel! tout mon fang dans mes veines fe glace.
Aft i. fc. 3.
Again,
Aman. C’en ed fait. Mon orgueil ed force de plier.
L’inexorable Amen ed reduit a prier.
Efher, aft iii. fc. 5.
Athalie. Quel prodige nouveau me trouble et m’em-
barralTe ?
$La douceur de fa voix, fon enfance, fa grace,
Thus. O de ma paflion fureur defefperee !
Brutus of Voltaire, aft iii. fc. 6.
What other are the foregoing indances but defcribing
the paflion another feels ?
The fourth clafs is of fentiments exprefled too early
or too late.
Some examples mentioned above belong to this clafs.
Add the following from Venice Preferv'd, aft v. at the
clofe of the fcene between Belvidera and her father
Priuli. The account given by Belvidera of the danger
die w’as in, and of her hulband’s threatening to murtier
her, ought naturally to have alarmed her relenting fa¬
ther, and to have made him exprefs the mod perturbed
fentiments. Indead of which, he diffolves into tender-
nefs and love for his daughter, as if he had already de¬
livered her from danger, and as if there were a perfeft
tranquillity :
Cand thou forgive me all my follies pad !
I’ll henceforth be indeed a father 5 never,
Never more thus expofe, but cherilh thee.
Dear as the vital warmth that feeds my life,
Dear as thofe eyes that w7eep in fondnefs o’er thee:
Peace to thy heart.
Immoral fentiments expofed in their native colours,
indead of being concealed or difguifed, compofe the
ffth clafs.
The Lady Macbeth, projefting the death of the king,
has the following foliloquy :
■  -The raven himfelf’s not hoarfe
That croaks the fatal entrance of Duncan
Under my battlements. Come, all you fpirits
That tend on mortal thoughts, unfex me here,
And fill me from the crown to the toe, top full
Of dired cruelty j make thick my blood,
Stop up th’ accefs and paffage to remorfe,
That no compunftious vifitings of nature
Shake my fell purpofe. Macbeth, aft i. fc. 7.
This fpeech is not natural. A treacherous murder was
never perpetrated even by the mod hardened mifcreant
without compunftion : and that the lady here mud have
been in horrible agitation, appears from her invoking
the infernal fpirits to fill her with cruelly, and to flop
up all avenues to remorfe. But in that date of mind
it is a never-failing artifice of felf-deceit to draw the
thicked veil over the wicked aftion, and to extenu¬
ate it by all the circumdances that imagination can fug¬
ged : and if the crime cannot bear difguife, the next at¬
tempt is to thrud it out of mind altogether, and to ruih
on to aftion without thought. This lad was the huf-
band’s method.
Strange things I have in head, that will to hand ;
Which mud be afted ere they mud be fcann’d.
Aft iii. fc. 5.
The lady follows neither of thefe courfes, but in a de¬
liberate manner endeavours to fortify her heart in the
commiflion of an execrable crime, without even attempt¬
ing to colour it. This, w'e think, is not natural; w-e
& hope
I
SEN
fertiment*. hope there is no fuch wretch to be found as is here re-
 prefented.
The lajl clafs comprehends fentiments that are unna¬
tural, as being fuited to no character nor paflion. Thefe
may be fubdivided into three branches: firft, fentiments
unfuitable to the conflitution of man, and to the laws of
his nature 5 fecond, inconfiftent fentiments j third, fen¬
timents that are pure rant and extravagance.
When the fable is of human affairs, every event, eve¬
ry incident, and every circumftance, ought to be natu¬
ral, otherwife the imitation is imperfect. But an im-
perfedl imitation is a venial fault, compared with that
of running crofs to nature. In the Hippolytus of Euri¬
pides (adl; iv. fc. 5.), Hippolytus, withing for another
felf in his own fituation, “ How much (fays he) fhould
I be touched with his misfortune !” as if it were natural
to grieve more for the misfortune of another than for
one’s own.
Ofmyn. Yet I behold her—yet—-and now no more.
Turn your lights inward, eyes, and view my thoughts j
So (hall you ftill behold her—’twill not be.
O impotence of light! mechanic fenfe
Which to exterior objefts ow’ft thy faculty,
Not feeing of election, but neceflity.
Thus do our eyes, as do all common mirrors,
Succeffively refleff fucceeding images.
Nor what they would, but muft $ a ftar or toad $
Juft as the hand of chance adminifters !
Mourning Bride, adt ii. fc. 8.
No man in his fenfes, ever thought of applying his
eyes to difcover what paffes in his mind ; far lefs of bla¬
ming his eyes for not feeing a thought or idea. In Mo-
liere’s l'Avars (a£t iv. fc. 7.) Harpagon, being robbed
of his money, feizes himfelf by the arm, miftaking it
for that of the robber. And again he expreffes himfelf
as follow;
Je veux aller querir la juftice, et faire donner la que-
ftion a toute ma maifon; 3l fervantes, a valets, & fils, a
fille, et it moi aufli.
This is fo abfurd as fcarcely to provoke a fmile, if it
be not at the author.
Of the fecond branch the following example may
fuffice:
"■ ■ ■ ■ Now bid me run,
And I will ftrive with things impojjible.
Yea, get the better of them.
Julius Cafar, aft ii. fc. 3.
Of the third branch, take the following famples. Lu¬
can, talking of Pompey’s fepulchre,
- ■ ■■  — Romanum nomen, et omne
Imperium magno eft tumuli modus. Obrue faxa
Crimine plena deftm. Si tota eft Herculis Oete,
Et juga tota vacant Bromio Nyfeia ; quare
Unus in Egypto Magno lapis ? Omnia Lagi
Kura tenere poteft, fi nullo cefpite nomen
. Haeferit. Erremus populi, cinerumque tuorum,
Magne, metu nullas Nili calcemus arenas.
Lib. viii. 1. 798.
Thus, in Rowe’s tranflation :
Where there are feas, or air, or earth, or Ikies,
% Where’er Rome’s empire ftretches. Pompey lies.
Vol. XIX. Part L
SEN
Far be the vile memorial then convey’d !
Nor let this ftone the partial gods upbraid*
Shall Hercules all Oeta’s heights demand,
And Nyfa’s hill for Bacchus only ftand •,
While one poor pebble is the warrior’s doom
That fought the caufe of liberty and Rome ?
If Fate decrees he muft in Egypt lie,
Let the whole fertile realm his grave fupply.
Yield the wide country to his awful ftiade,
Nor let us dare on any part to tread,
Fearful we violate the mighty dead.
The following paflages are pure rant. Coriolanus,
fpeaking to his mother,
What is this ?
Your knees to me ? to your correfted fon ?
Then let the pebbles on the hungry beach
Fillop the ftars : then let the mutinous winds
Strike the proud cedars ’gainft the fiery fun :
Murd’ring impoflibility, to make
What cannot be, flight work.
Coriolanus, aft i. fc. 3.
Ccefar. ——Danger knows full well,
That Csefar is more dangerous than he.
We were two lions litter’d in one day,
And I the elder and more terrible.
Julius Ccefar, aft ii. fc. 4.
Ventidius. But you, ere love mifled your wand’ring
eyes,
Were fure the chief and beft of human race,
Fram’d in the very pride and boaft of nature,
So perfeft, that the gods who form’d you wonder’d
At their own fkill, and cry’d, A lucky hit
Has mended our defign. Dryden, Allfor Love, aft i.
Not to talk of the impiety of this fentiment, it is ludi¬
crous inftead of being lofty.
The famous epitaph on Raphael is not lefs abfurd than
any of the foregoing paffages :
Raphael, timuit, quo fofpite, vinci,
Rerum magna parens, et moriente mori.
Imitated by Pope, in his epitaph on Sir Godfrey Knel-
ler :
Living, great Nature fear’d he might outvie
Her works j and dying, fears herfelf may die.
Such is the force of imitation; for Pope of himfelf
would never have been guilty of a thought fo extrava¬
gant.
SENTINEL, or Sentry, in military affairs, «
private foldier placed in fome poft to watch the ap¬
proach of the enemy, to prevent furprifes, to flop fuch
as would pafs without orders or difeovering who they
are. They are placed before the arms of all guards,
at the tents and doors of general officers, colonels of
regiments, &c.
SENTINEL Perdu, a foldier polled near an enemy, or
in fome very dangerous poft where he is in hazard of
being loft.
All fentinels are to be vigilant on their pofts; neither
are they to fing, fmoke tobacco, nor fuffer any noife to
be made near them. They are to have a watchful eye
over the things committed to their charge. They are
not to fuffer any light to remain, or any fire to be
X made,
[ 1
Sentiments
II
Sentinel.
SEP [ 162 ] SEP
made, near their polls in the night-time ; neither is any
fentry to be relieved or removed from his poll but by
the corporal of the guard. They are not to fuffer any
one to touch or handle their arms, or in the night-time
to come within ten yards of their poll.
No pei (on is to flrike or abufe a fentry on his poll ;
but when he has committed a crime, he is to be relie¬
ved, and then puniihed according to the rules and ar¬
ticles of war.
A fentinel, on his poll in the night, is to know no¬
body but by the counter-fign : when he challenges,
and is anfvvered, Relief, he calls out, Stand, relief l ad¬
vance, corporal! upon which the corporal halts his men,
and advances alone within a yard of the fen try’s fire¬
lock (firfl ordering his party to reil, on which the
fentry does the fame), and gives him the counter-fign,
taking care that'no one hear it.
SEPIA, the Cuttle-fish, a genus of animals be-
longing to the clafs of vermes. See Helmintholcg F
Index.
The officinal cuttle affords the cuttle-bone of the
Amps, which was formerly uled as an abforbent. The
bones are frequently flung on all our flicres ; the animal
very rarely. The conger eels, it is faid, bite oit their
arms, or feet ; but it is added they grow again, as does
the lizard’s tail (Plin. ix. 29.). They are preyed upon
by the plaife. This fifh emits (in common with the
other Ipecies), when alarmed or puifued, the black li¬
quor which the ancients fuppefed darkened the circum¬
ambient wave, and concealed it from the enemy.
The endanger’d cuttle thus evades his fears,
And native hoards of fluid fafety bears.
A pitchy ink peculiar glands fupply,
• Whofe fhades the {harped beam of light defy.
Purfu’d, he bids the fable fountains flow,
And, wrapt in clouds, eludes th’ impending foe.
The fifh retreats unieen, while felf-born night,
With pious fhade befriends her parent’s flight.
The ancients fometimes made ufe of it inftead of ink.
Perfius mentions the fpecies in his defeription of the
noble iludent.
Jam liber, et bicolor poftis membrana capillis,
Inque manus charUe, nodafque ven t arundo.
'Turn quenmur, craffus calamo quod pendent humor ;
Nigra quod infufa venefcat fepia lympha.
At length, his book he fpreads, his pen he takes j
His papers here in learned order lays,
And there his parchment’s fmoother fide difplays.
But oh ! what croffes wait on fludious men !
The cuttle's juice hangs clotted at our pen.
In all mq life fuch fluff I never knew,
So gummy thick—D.lute it, it will do.
Nay, now 'tis water ! Dryden.
This animal was effeemed a delicacy by the ancients,
and is eaten even at prefent by the Italians. Rondele-
tius gives us two receipts for the drefling, wdrich may
be continued to this day. Athenceus alfo leaves us
the method of making an antique cuttle-fiflr faufage 5
and we learn from Aritlotle, that thofe animals are in
highell feafon when pregnant.
SEPIARIiE, (from fepes, “ a hedge”), the name
of the 44th order of Linnaeus’s Fragments of a Natural
Method, confifting of a beautiful colleflion of woody
plants, fome of which, from their fize and elegance, Sep*
are very proper furniture for hedges. See Botany II
Index. ° ScPticc-
SEPS, a fpecies of Lacerta. See Erpetology
Index.
SEPJ ARITE, in Natural Hi/lory, an old term for
a variety of iron-llone, called alfo Indus Helmontii. This
mineral is of a round compreffed fonn, and is internally
divided by lepta or thin partitions of lime fpar or pyri¬
tes •, hence the name.
SEPT AS, a genus of plants belonging to the clafs of
lleptandria ; and in the natural fyfttm ranged under the
13ih order, Succulenta\ Ste Botany Index.
SEPTEMBER, the ninth month of. the year, con-
fifling of thirty days } it took iis name as being the fe-
venth month, reckoning from March, with which the
Pt»mans began their year.
SEPTENNIAL, any thing lafling feven years.
SEPTENNIAL FJechons. Blackllone, in his Com¬
mentaries, vol. i. p. 189. lays, (after obferving that the
utfnoil extent of time allowed the fame parliament to
fit by tire fiat. 6. W. and M. c. 2. was three years),
“ But, by the flatute 1 Geo. I. ft. tt. 2. c. 38. (in or¬
der profeffedly to prevent the great and continued ex-
pences of frequent eleclions, and the violent heats and
animofities confequent thereupon, and for the peace and
fecurity of the government, juft then recovering from
the late rebellion), this terra was prolonged to feven
years ; and what alone is an inftance of the vaft au¬
thority of parliament, the very fame houfe that was
chofen for three years enacled its own continuance for
feven.”
SEPTENTRIO, in AJlronomy, a conftellation, more
ufually called urfa minor.
In cofmography, the term feptentrio denotes the fame
with north : and hence feptentrional is applied to any
thing belonging to the north ; as feptentrionalfgns, pa¬
rallels, &c.
SEPTICS, are thofe fubftances which promote pu-
trefaclion, chiefly the calcareous earths, magnefia, and
tefcaceous powders. From the many curious experi¬
ments made by Sir John Pringle to afeertain the fptic
and antifeptic virtues of natural bodies, it appears that
there are very few fubftances of a truly feptic nature.
Thcfe commonly reputed fuch by authors, as the al¬
kaline and volatile falls, he found to be ro wife feptic.
However, he difeovered fome, where it feemed leaft
likely to find any fuch quality •, thefe were chalk, corn-
man fait, and teftaceous powders. He mixed twenty
grains of crabs eyes, prepared with fix drams of ox’s gall,
and an equal quantity of water. Into another phial he
put an equal quantity of gall and water, but no crabs-
eyes. Both thefe mixtures being placed in the furnace,
the putrefaction began much fooner, where the powder
was, than in the other phial. On making a like expe¬
riment with chalk, its feptic virtue was found to be much
greater than that of the crabs-eyes : nay, what the doc¬
tor never met with before, in a mixture of two drams of
flefli. with two ounces of water and thirty grains of pre¬
pared chalk, the fleih ivas refolved into a perfeft mucus
in a few days.
To try whether the teftaceous powders would alfo
difTolve vegetable fubftances, the doClor mixed them
with barley and water, and compared this mixture with
another of barley and water alone. After a long ma¬
ceration
y
SEP [ i
ceration by a fire, the plain water was found to fwell
the barley, and turn mucilaginous and lour 5 but that
with the powder kept the grain to its natural fize, and
though it foftened it, yet made no mucilage, and re¬
mained fweet.
Nothing could be more unexpedled, than to find fea
fait a hallener of putrefaction ; but the fa£t is thus $ one
dram of fait preferves two drams or freth beef in two
ounces of water, above thirty hours, uncorrupted, in a
heat equal to that of the human body ; or, which is
the fame thing, this quantity of fait keeps ilelh Ivveet
twenty hours longer than pure water •, but then half a
dram of fait does not preferve it above two hours long¬
er. Twenty-five grains have little or no antifeptic vir¬
tue, and ten, fifteen, or even twenty grains, manif’eftly
both haften and heighten the corruption. The quan¬
tity which had the mold putrefying quality, was found
to be about ten grains to the above proportion of flefh
and water.
Many inferences might be drawn from this experi¬
ment : one is, that fince lalt is never taken in aliment
bevoml the proportion of the corrupting quantities, it
would appear that it is fubfervient to digeltion chiefly
by its feptic virtue, that is, by foftening and refolving
meats ; an action very different from what is commonly
believed.
It is to be obferved, that the above experiments
were made with the fait kept for domeftic ufes. See
Pringle’s Obferv. on the Difeafes of the army, p. 348,
et feq.
SEPTIZON, or SepTizonium, in Roman antiqui¬
ty, a celebrated maufoleum, built by Septimius Severus,
in the tenth region of the city of Rome : it was fo call¬
ed from feptem and 'zona, by reafon it confided of fe-
ven iiories, each of which was furrounded by a row of
columns.
SEPTUAGESIMA, in the kalendar, denotes the
third Sunday before Lent, or before Quadragefima Sun¬
day : fuppofed by fome to take its name from its being
about feventy days before Eafler.
SEPTUAGINT, the name given to a Greek ver-
fion of the books of the Old Teftament, from its being
fuppofed to be the work of feventy Jervs, who are ufual-
ly called the feventy interpretrs, becaufe feventy is a
round number.
The hiflory of this verfion is exprefsly written by
Aridseas, an officer of the guards to Ptolemy Philadel-
phus, the fubdance of whole account is as lollovs : —
Piolemy having ere6ted a fine library at Alexandria,
which he took care to fill with the mod curious and
valuable books from all parts of the world, was inform¬
ed that the Jews had one containing the laws of Mofes,
and the hidory of that people ; and beiitg dedrous of
enriching his library with a Greek tranflation of it, ap¬
plied to the high-pried of the Jews 5 and to engage
him to comply with his requed, fet at liberty all the
Jews whom his father Ptolemy Soter had reduced to
davery. After fuch a dep, he eafily obtained what he
defired •, Eleazar the Jewidi high-pried fent back his
ambafiadors with an exaft copy of the Mofaical law,
written in letters of gold, and dx elders of each tribe,
in all feventy-two •, who were received with marks of
refpefl by the king, and then conducted into the ide
of Pharos, where they were lodged in a houfe prepared
for their reception, and fupplied with everything ne-
63 ] s E P
cell ary. They fet about the trandation without lofs ofSeptuagint.
time, and finidied it in feventy-two days; and the whole " v
being read in the prefence of the king, he admired the
profound wifdom of the laws of Mofes : and lent back
the deputies laden with prefents, for themfelves, the high-
pried, and the temple.
Aridobulus, who was tutor to Pcolemy Phyfcon,
Philo who lived in our Saviour’s time, and was contem¬
porary with the apodles, and Jofephus, fpeak of this
tranflation as made by feventy two interpreters, by the
care of Demetrius Phalereus in the reign of Ptolemy
Philadelphus. All the Chridian writers, during the firlt
15 centuries of the Chridian era, have admitted this ac¬
count of the Septuagint as an undoubted fact. But
fince the reformation, critics have boldly called it in
quedion, becaufe it was attended with circumflances
which they think inconflflent, or, at lead, improbable.
Du Pin has alked, wrhy were feventy-two interpreters
employed, fince twelve would have been fufficient ? Such
an objeftion is trifling. We may as well alk, why did
King James I. employ fifty-four tranllators in rendering
the Bible into Englilh, lince Du Pin thinks twelve
would have been lufficient ?
1. Prideaux objedfs, that the Septuagint is not writ¬
ten in the Jewilh, but in the Alexandrian, dialed ; and
could not therefore be the work of natives of Paleftine.
But thefe dialeds were probably at that time the fame,
for both Jews and Alexandrians had received the
Greek language from the Macedonians about 50 years
before.
2. Prideaux farther contends, that all the books of
the Old Teflament could not be tranflated at the fame
time ; for they exhibit great difference of flyle. To this
it is fufficient to reply, that they were the work of fe¬
venty-two men, each of whom had feperate portions af-
figned them.
3. The Dean alfo urges, that Andreas, Aridobulus,
Philo, and Jofephus, all diredly tell us, that the law
was trandated without mentioning any of the other fa-
cred books. But nothing was more common among
writers of the Jewidi nation than to give this name to
the Scriptures as a whole. In the New Tedament, law
is uled as fynonymous with what we call the Old Tefla¬
ment. Befides, it is exprefsly laid by Aridobulus, in a
fragment quoted by Eufebius (Pra-p. Evan. 1. 1.), that
the whole Sacred Scripture was rightly trandated through
the means of Demetrius Phalereus, and by the command
of Philadelphus. Jofephus indeed, fays the learned Dean,
afferts, in the preface to his Antiquities, that the Jewidi
interpreters did not tranflate for Ptolemy the whole
Scriptures, but the law only. Here the evidence is con¬
tradictory, and we have to determine, whether Arido¬
bulus or Jofephus be mod worthy of credit. We do
not mean, however, to accufe either of forgery, but only
to inquire which had the bed opportunities of knowing
the truth. Aridobulus was an Alexandrian Jew, tutor
to an Egyptian king, and lived within 100 years after the
tranflation was made, and certainly had accefs to fee it
in the royal library. Jofephus was a native of Palefline,
and lived not until 300 years or more after the trarfla-
tion was made, and many years after it was burnt along
with the wfliole library of Alexandria in the wars of
Julius Caefar. Suppodng the veracity of thefe two wri¬
ters equal, as we have no proof of the contrary, which
ef them ought we to confider as the bed evidence ? Ari-
X 2 ftobulus
%
Septuagint.
* Blair's
l.eclureson
ike Canon,
Stilliug-
Jitet’s 0) i-
gints Sa-
<ra.
Prideaux's
Co?inec-
tions. vol.iii
x.
SEP [i
ftobulus furely. Prideaux, indeed, feems doubtful whe¬
ther there was ever fuch a man ; and Dr Plody fup-
pofes that the Commentaries on the five books of Mofes,
which bear the name of Ariftobulus, were a forgery of
the fecond century. To prove the exiftence of any hu¬
man being, who lived 2000 years before us, and did
not perform fuch works as no mere man ever performed,
is a talk which we are not difpofed to undertake j and
we believe it would not be lefs difficult to prove that
Phiio and Jofephus exified, than that fuch a perfon as
Aridobulus did not exill. If the writings which have
paffed under his name were a forgery of the fecond cen¬
tury, it is furprifing that they ffiould have impofed upon
Clemens Alexandrinus, who lived in the fame century,
and was a man of abilities, learning, and well acquaint¬
ed with the writings of the ancients. Eufebius, too, in
his Pra-p. Evan, quotes the Commentaries of Ariftobu-
lus. But, continues the learned Dean, “ Clemens Alex¬
andrinus is the firh author that mentions them. Now,
had any fuch commentaries exifted in the time of Philo
and Jofephus, they would furely have mentioned them,
u^ut is the circumilance of its not being quoted by every
iucceeding author a fufficient reafon to difprove the au¬
thenticity of any book ? Neither Philo nor Jofephus un¬
dertook to give a liil of preceding authors, and it was
by no means the uniform pra&ice of thefe times always
to name the authors from whom they derived their in¬
formation.”
4. Prideaux farther contends, that the fum which
Ptolemy is faid to have given to the interpreters is too
great to be credible. If his computation were juft, it
certainly would be fo. Pie makes it 2,ooo,ocol. fter-
ling, but other writers * reduce it to 85,421!. and fome
to 56,947b } neither of which is a fum fo very extra¬
ordinary in fo great and magnificent a prince as Phila-
delphus, who fpent, according to a paffage in Athenaeus
(lib. v.), not lefs than 10,000 talents on the furniture of
one tent 5 which is fix times more than what was fpent
in the whole of the embaffy and tranllation, which
amounted only to 1552 talents.
5. Prideaux fays, “ that what convi&sthe whole ftory
of Arifteas of falfity is, that he makes Demetrius Pha-
lereus to be the chief after in it, and a great favourite
of the king ; whereas Philadelphus, as foon as his father
was dead, caft him into prifon, where he foon after died.”
But it may be replied, that Philadelphus reigned two
years jointly with his father Lagus, and it is not faid
by Hermippus that Demetrius w^as out of favour with
Philadelphus during his father’s life. Now, if the Sep-
tuagint was tianflated in the beginning of the reign of
Philadelphus, as Eufebius and Jerome think, the diffi¬
culty will be removed. Demetrius might have been
librarian during the reign of Philadelphus, and yet im-
prifoned on the death of Lagus. Indeed, as the caufe
of Philadelphus’s difpleafure was the advice which De¬
metrius gave to his father, to prefer the fons of Arfinoe
before the fon of Bernice, he could fcarcely ffiow it till
his father’s death. The Septuagint tranflation might
therefore be begun while Philadelphus reigned jointly
with his father, but not be finilhed till after his father’s
death.
6. Befides the objeftions which have been confidered,
there is only one that deferves notice. The ancient
. Chriftians not only differ from one another concerning
the time in which Ariftobulus lived, but even contra,-
64] SEP
dift themfelves in different parts of their workt. Some-Septuagint.
times they tell us, he dedicated his book to Ptolemy v—'
Philoineter, at other times they fay, it was addreffed
to Philadelphus and his father. Sometimes they make
him the fame perfon who is mentioned in 2 Maccabees,
chap 1. and fometimes one of the 72 interpreters 152
years before. It is difficult to explain how authors fall
into fuch inconfiftencies, but it is probably occafioned
by their quoting from memory. This wras certainly the
praftice of almoft all the early Chriftian writers, and
fometimes of the apoftles themfelves. Miftakes were
therefore inevitable. Jofephus has varied in the circum-
ftances of the fame event, in his antiquities and wars of
the Jews, probably from the fame caufe j but we do not
hence conclude, that every circumftance of fuch a rela¬
tion is entirely falfe. In the account of the Marquis of
Argyle’s death in the reign of Charles II. we have a
very remarkable contradiftion. Lord Clarendon re¬
lates, that he was condemned to be hanged, which was
performed the fame day : on the contrary, Burnet,
Woodrow, Heath, Echard, concur in ftating, that he
was beheaded j and that he was condemned upon the
Saturday and executed upon the Monday f. Was any [• Biografu,
reader of Engliffi hiftory ever fceptic enough to raife-Br^w*
from hence a queftion, whether the Marquis of Argyle
was executed or not ? Yet this ought to be left in un¬
certainty according to the way of reafoning in which
the fafts refpefting the tranllation of the Septuagint is
attempted to be difproved.
Such are the objeftions which the learned and inge¬
nious Prideaux has raifed againft the common account
of the Septuagint tranflation, and fuch are the anfwers
which may be given to them. We have chofen to fup-
port that opinion which is fanftioned by hiftorical evi¬
dence, in preference to the conjeftures of modern critics
however ingenious ; being perfuaded, that there are ma¬
ny things recorded in hiftory, which, though perfeftly
true, yet, from our imperfeft knowledge of the conco¬
mitant circumftances, may, at a diftant period, feem li¬
able to objeftions. To thofe who require pofitive evi¬
dence, it may be ftated thus. Ariftaeas, Ariftobulus,
Philo, and Jofephus, affure us, that the law was tranf-
lated. Taking the law in the moft: reftrifted fenfe, we
have at leaft fufficient authority to affert, that the Pen¬
tateuch was rendered into Greek under Ptolemy Phila¬
delphus. Ariftobulus affirms, that the whole Scrip¬
tures were tranflated by the feventy-two. Jofephus
confines their labours to the books of Mofes. He there¬
fore who cannot determine to which of the two the
greateft refpeft is due, may fufpend his opinion. It is
certain, however, that many of the other books were
tranflated before the age of our Saviour; for they are
quoted both by him and his apoftles : and, perhaps, by
a minute examination of ancient authors, in the fame
rvay that Dr Lardner has examined the Chriftian fathers
to prove the antiquity of the New Teftament, the pre-
cife period in which the whole books of the Septuagint
were compofed might, with coufiderable accuracy, be
afeertained.
For 400 years this tranflation was in high eftimation
with the Jews. It was read in their fynagogues in pre¬
ference to the Hebrew j not only in thofe places where
Greek was the common language,. but in many fyna¬
gogues of Jerufalem and Judea. But when they faw
that it was equally valued by the Chriftians, they be¬
came
SEP [ 165 ] SEP
gpptuapint, came jealous of it, and at length, in the fecond century,
' Aquila, an apoftate Chriftian, attempted to fubftitute
another Greek tranflation in its place. In this work
he was careful to give the ancient prophecies concern¬
ing the Meffiah a different turn from the Septuagint,
that they might not be applicable to Chrift. In the
fame defign he was followed by Symmachus and Theo-
dotion, who alfo, as St Jerome informs us, wrote out of
hatred to Chriffianity.
In the mean time, the Septuagint, from the ignorance,
boldnefs, and careleffhefs of tranfcribers, became full of
errors. To correct thefe, Origen publilhed a new edi¬
tion in the beginning of the third century, in which he
placed the tranllations of Aquila, Symmachus, and The-
odotion. This edition was called Tetrapla, the tranfla-
tions being arranged oppofite to one another in four
columns. He alfo added one column, containing the
Hebrew text in Hebrew letters, and another exhibiting
it in Greek. In a fecond edition he publifhed two ad¬
ditional Greek verffons ; one of which was found at Ni-
copolis, and the other at Jericho ■, this was called the
Hexapla. By comparing fo many tranflations, Origen
endeavoured to form a corredl copy of the Scriptures.
Where they all agreed, he confidered them right. The
paflages which he found in the LXX, but not in the
Hebrew text, he marked with an obelifk : what he
found in the Hebrew, but not in the LXX, he marked
with an afferifk. St Jerome fays, that the additions
which Origen made to the LXX, and marked with an
afterifk, were taken from Theodotion. From this valu¬
able work of Origen the verfion of the LXX was tranf-
cribed in a feparate volume, with the afterifks and obe-
lifks for the ufe of the churches •, and from this circum-
flance the great work itfelf was neglefted and loft.
About the year 300 two new editions of the LXX
were publifhed ; the one by Hefychius an Egyptian bi-
fhop, and the other by Lucian a prefbyter of Antioch.
But as thefe authors did not mark with any note of di-
ftiiuftion the alterations which they had made, their edi¬
tion does not poflefs the advantages of Origen’s.
The beft edition of the LXX is that of Dr Grabe,
which was publilhed in the beginning of the prefent
century. He had accefs to two MSS, nearly of equal
antiquity, the one found in the Vatican library at Rome,
the other in the royal library at St James’s, which was
prefented to Charles I. by Cyril, patriarch of Alexan¬
dria, and hence is commonly called the Alexandrian
MS. Anxious to difcover which of thefe was accord¬
ing to the edition of Origen, Dr Grabe colle&ed the
fragments of the Hexapla, and found they agreed with
the Alexandrian MS. but not with the Vatican where
it differed with the other. Hence he concluded that
the Alexandrian MS. was taken from the edition of
Origen. By comparing the quotations from fcripture
in the works of Athanafius and St Cyril (who were pa¬
triarchs of Alexandria at the time St Jerome fays He-
fychius’s edition of the LXX was there ufed) with the
Vatican MS. he found they agreed fo well that he juft-
ly inferred that that MS. was taken from the edition of
Hefychius.
This verfion was in ufe to the time of our bleffed
Saviour, and is that out of which moft of the citations
in the New Teffament, from the Old, are taken. It
was alfo the ordinary and canonical tranflation made
ufe of by the. Chriftian church in the earlieft ages 5
and it ftill fubfifts in the churches both of the eaft and Septuagir.t
weft. Se u^[ire.
Thofe who define a more particular account of the aei)
Septuagint tranflations may confult Hody de Bibliorum
Textibus, Prideaux’s Connexions, Owen’s Inquiry into
the Septuagint Verfion, Blair’s LeXures on the Canon,
and Michaelis’s IntroduXion to the New Teftament,
laft edition.
SEPTUAGINT Chronologyt the chronology which is
formed from the dates and periods of time mentioned
in the Septuagint tranflation of the Old Teftament. It
reckons 1500 years more from the creation to Abraham
than the Hebrew bible. Dr Kennicot, in the diflerta-
tion prefixed to his Hebrew bible, has drown it to be
very probable that the chronology of the Hebrew fcrip-
tures, fince the period juft mentioned, was corrupted by
the Jews, between the years 175 and 200, and that the
chronology of the Septuagint is more agreeable to
truth. It is a faX, that during the fecond and third
centuries the Hebrew fcriptures were almoft entirely
in the iiands of the Jews, while the Septuagint was con¬
fined to the Chriftians. The Jews had therefore a
very favourable opportunity for this corruption. The
following is the reafon which is given by oriental writers;
It being a very ancient tradition, that the Mefliah was
to come in the fixth chiliad, becaufe he was to come in
the laft days (founded on a myftical application of the
fix days creation), the contrivance was to Jhorten the age
of the world from about 5500 to 3760 ; and thence to
prove that Jefus could not be the MeJJiah, Dr Kennicot
adds, that fome Hebrew copies having the larger chro¬
nology were extant till the time of Eufebius, and fome
till the year 700.
SEPTUM, in Anatomy, an inclofure or partition j a
term applied to feveral parts of the body, which ferve to
feparate one part from another j ?iS,feptum. narium, or
partition between the noftrils, &c.
SEPULCHRAL, fomething belonging to fepul-
chres or tombs: thus a fepulchral column is a column
ereXed over a tomb, with an infeription on its ftiaft j
and fepulchral lamps, thofe faid to have been found
burning in the tombs of feveral martyrs and others. See
Lamp.
SEPULCHRE, a tomb or place deftined for the in¬
terment of the dead. This term is chiefly ufed in fpeak-
ingof the burying-places of the ancients, thofe of the mo¬
derns being ufually called tombs.
Sepulchres were held facred and inviolable $. and the
care taken of them has always been held a religious du¬
ty, grounded on the fear of God, and the belief of the
foul’s immortality. Thofe who have fearched or viola¬
ted them have been thought odious by all nations, and
were always feverely puniflied.
The Egyptians called fepulchres eternalhoufes, mean-
tradiftinXion to their ordinary houfes or palaces, which
they called inns, on account of their ftiort flay in the one
in comparifon of their long abode in the other. See
Tomb.
Regular Canons of St SEPULCHRE, a. religious order,
formerly inftituted at Jefufalem, in honour of the holy
fepulchre, or the tomb of Jefus Chrift.
Many of thefe canons were brought from the Holy
Land into Europe, particularly into France, .by Louis
the Younger; into Poland, by Jaxa, a Polilh gentle.-
man 5 and into Flanders, by the counts thereof j many
alfo
s E Q r 166 ] S E Q,
Sepulchre alfo came into England, This order was, however, fup-
„ prelTed by Pope Innocent VIII. who gave its revenues
^ion.™ an^ effe^s to °f oui‘ Lady of Bethlehem : which
alfo becoming extin£i, they were bellowed on the knights
of St John of Jerufalem. But the fuppreffion did not
take eftedl in Poland, where they Hill fublift, as alfo in
feveral provinces of Germany. Thefe canons follow the
rule of St Auguftine.
Knights of the Holy SEPULCHRE, a military order,
eftablilhed in Palelline about the year 1114.
The knights of this order in Flanders chofe Phi¬
lip II. king of.Spain, for their mailer, in 1558, and
afterwards his Ion; but the grand mailer of the order
of Malta prevailed on the lalt to relign ■, and. when
afterwards the duke of Nevers affumed the fame qua¬
lity in France, the fame grand-malter, by his interell
and credit, procured a like renunciation of him, and
a confirmation of the union of this order to that of
Malta.
SEQUANI, a people anciently forming a part of
Gallia Celtica, but annexed to Belgica by Augulfus,
feparated from the Helvetii by Mount Jura, with the
Rhine on the call (Strabo), bordering on the ALdui
and Segulliano to the fouth, and Lingcnes to the well
(Tacitus). Now Franche Comte.
SEQUESTRATION, in Common Law, is fetting
afide the thing in controverfy from the poflelfion of
both the parties that contend for ft. In which fenfe
it is either voluntary, as when done by the confent of
the parties; or necefiary, as where it is done by the
judge, of his own authority, whether the parties will or
not.
Sequestration1, in the Civil Law, is the aft of the
ordinary, difpofmg of the goods and chattels of one de-
ceafed, whofe ellate no man will meddle with.
A widow is alfo faid to fequelfer, when Ihe difclaims
having any thing to do with the ellate of her deceafed
hulband.
Among the Romanilfs, in quellions of marriage, where
the wife complains of impotency in the hulband, the is to
be fequelfered into a convent, or into the hands of ma*
trons, till the procefs be determined.
Sequestration is alfo ufed for the aft of gathering
'the fruits of a benefice void, to the ufe of the next in¬
cumbent.
Sometimes a benefice is kept under fequeflration for
many years, when it is of fo final! value, that no cler¬
gyman fit to ferve the cure will be at the charge of ta¬
king it bv inlfitution ; in which cafe the fequelfration is
committed either to the curate alone, or to the curate and
church-wardens jointly. Sometimes the profits of a liv¬
ing in controverfy, either by the confent of the parties,
or the judge’s authority, are fequellered and placed for
fiifety in a third hand, till the fuit is determined, a mi-
nilfer being appointed by the judge to ferve the cure,
and allowed a certain fidary out of the profits. Some¬
times the profits of a living are fequellered for negleft of
duty, for dilapidations, or for fatisfying the debts of the
incumbent.
Sequestration, in chancery, is a commilTion ufually
directed to feven perfons therein named, empowering
them to feize the defendant’s perfonal eltate, and the pro¬
fits of his real, and to detain them, fubjeft to the order
of the court. It iffues on the return of the fetjeant at
arms, wherein it is certified, that the defendant had fe-
creted himfelf.
Sequcfirations were firft introduced by Sir Nicholas
Bacon, lord keeper in the reign of Queen Elizabeth j
before which the court found iome difficulty in enfor¬
cing its procefs and decrees; and they do not feem to be
in the nature of procels to bring in the defendant, but
only intended to enforce the performance of the court’s
decree.
A fequelfration is alfo made, in London, upon an
aftion of debt •, the ccurfe of proceeding in which ca!e
is this : The aftion being entered, the officer goes to
the defendant’s fhop or warehoufe, when no perfon is
there, and takes a padlock, and hangs it on the door,
uttering thefe words : “ I do fequeiler this warehoufe,
and the goods and merchandife therein, ot the defend¬
ant in this aftion, to the ufe of the plaintiff,” &c. after
which he fets on his feal, and makes a return of the lh-
quelfration in the compter; and four days being paffed
after the return made, the plaintiff may, at the next
court, have judgment to open the fhop or warehoule,
and to have the goods appraifed by two freemen, who
are to be fwern at the next court held for that comp¬
ter 5 and then the ferjeant puts his hand to the bill of
appraifement, and the court grants judgment thereon 3
but yet the defendant may put in bail before fatisfac-
tion, and by that means diffolve the fequelfration 5 and
after fatisfaftion, may put in bail to difprove the debt,
&c.
In the time of the civil wars, fequelfration was ufed
for a feizing of the elfates of delinquents for the ufe ot
the commonwealth.
Sequestration, in Scots Law. See Law Index.
SEQUIN, a gold coin, Ifruck at Venice, and irl
feveral parts of the Grand Signior’s dominions. In
Turkey, it is called dahob, or piece of gold, and ac¬
cording to Volney is in value about 6s. 3d. Iferling.
It varies, however, confiderably in its value in different
countries. At Venice it is equal to about 9s. 2d. fler-
1InS*
The V enetian fequins are in great requel! in Syria,
from the finenefs of their Ifandard, and the praftice
they have of empfoying them for women’s trinkets.
The falhion of thefe trinkets does not require much art -7
the piece of gold is limply pierced, in order to fufpend
it by a chain, likewife of gold, which flows upon the
brealf. The more fequins that are attached to this
chain, and the greater the number of thefe chains, the
more is a woman thought to be ornamented. This is
the favourite luxury, and the emulation of all ranks.
Even the female peafants, for want of geld, wear
piafires or fmaller pieces ; but the women of a certain
rank difdain filver ; they will accept of nothing but fe¬
quins of Venice, or large Spanilh pieces, and crufadoes.
Some of them wear 260 or 300, as well lying flat, as
Ifrung one on another, and hung near the forehead, at
the edge of the head drefs. It is a real load : but they
do not think they can pay too dearly for the fatisfac-
tion oi exhibiting this treafure at the public bath, be¬
fore a crowd of rivals, to awaken whofe jealoufy conlfi-
lutes their chief pleafure. The effeft of this luxury on
commerce, is the withdrawing confiderable fums from
circulation, which remain dead ; befides, that when any
of thefe pieces return into common ufe, having loll
their
Sc qacTt ra¬
tion
Sequin.
2
SET! [ 167 J ' S E R
Seraglio, tlieir weight by being pierced, it becomes necefiary to
—-'v  weigh them. The practice of weighing money is. ge¬
neral in Syria, Egypt, and all Turkey. No piece,
however effaced, is' refufed there j the merchant draws
out his leaks and weighs it, as in the days oi Abra¬
ham, when he purchaled his lepulehre. In conlider-
able payments, an agent of exchange is fent tor, wno
counts paras by thoufands, rejefts a great many pieces
of falfe money, and weighs all the i'equms, either iepa-
rately or together.
SERAGLIO, formed from the Per flan word fera.iv,
or Turkilh word farai, which fignifies a houfe, and is
commonly ufed to exprels the home or palace or a
prince. In this fenfe it is frequently ufed at Conllan-
tinopie j the houfes of foreign ambaffadors are called
rrgHos. But it is commonly ufed by way of eminence
for the palace of the grand lignior at ConRantinople,
where lie keeps his court, and where his concubines are
lodged, and where the youth are trained up for the chief
pods of the empire.
It is a triangle about three Italian miles round, whol¬
ly within the city, at the end of the promontory Chry-
faceras, now called the Seraglio Point. ’I lie buildings
run back to the top of the hill, and from thence are
gardens that reach to the edge of the lea. It is inclo-
fed with a very high and ffrong wall, upon which there
are fevend watch towers : aud it has many gates, fome
of which open towards the fea fide, and the reit into the
city ; but the chief gate is one of the latter, which is
condantly guarded by a company of capoochees, or
porters j and in the night it is well guarded towards
the fea. The outward appearance is not very beautiful,
the architedlure being irregular, confiding of feparate
edifices in the form of pavilions and domes.
The ladies of the feraglio are a colledlion of beauti¬
ful young women, chiefly fent as prefents from the pro¬
vinces and the Greek iilanbs, molt of them the children
of Chriflian parents. The brave prince Heraclius harh
for fome years paft abolifhed the infamous tribute of chil¬
dren of both fexes, which Georgia formerly paid every
year'to the Porte. The number of women in the harem
depends on the tafie of the reigning monarch or fultan.
Selim had 2000, Achmet had but 300, and his fuc-
ceffor had nearly 1600. On their admiffion they are
committed to the care of old ladies, taught fewing and
embroidery, mufic, dancing, and other accompHfhments,
and furnifhed with the richeft clothes and ornaments.
They all fleep in feparate beds, and between every
fifth there is a preceptrefs. Their chief govemefs is
called Katon Kiaga, or governefs of the noble young
ladies. There is not one fervant among them, for they
are obliged to wait on one another by rotation 5 the
laft that is entered ferves her who preceded her and her-
felf. Thefe ladies are fcardely ever fuffered to go a-
broad, except when the grand fignior removes from
one place to another, when a troop of black eunuchs
conveys them to the boats, which are inclofed with lat¬
tices and linen curtains; and when they go by land
they are put into clofe chariots, and fignals are made
at certain difiances, to give notice that none approach
the roads through which they march. The boats of
the harem, which carry the grand fignior’s wives, are
manned with 24 rowers, and have white covered tilts,
fttut alternately by Venetian blinds. Among the em-
peror’s attendants are a number of mutes, who adl and Seraglio:
converfe by figns with great quicknefs, and fome i‘-—~v-—-
dwarfs, who are exhibited for the diverfion of his Ma-
jc’fty-
When he permits the women to walk in the gardens
of the feraglio, all people are ordered to retire, and on
every fide there is a guard of black eunuchs, with fa-
bres in their hands, while others go their rounds in
order to hinder any perlon from feeing them. If, un¬
fortunately, any one is found in the garden, even through
ignorance or inadvertence, he is undoubtedly killed,
and his head brought to the feet of the grand fignior,
who gives a great reward to the guard lor their vigi¬
lance. Sometimes the grand fignior palfes into the
gardens to amufe himfelf when the women are there ;
and it is then that they make ufe of their utmoft efforts,
by dancing, finging, feducing geftures, and amorous blan-
dilhments, to enlnare the aftedtions of the monarch. It
is not permitted that the monarch firould take a virgin
to his bed, except during the folemn feftivals, and on
occalion of fome extraordinary rejoicings, or the arrival
of fome good news. Upon fuch occafions, if the fui-
tan chooie a new companion to his bed, he enters into
the apartment of the women, who are ranged in files
by the governeffes, to whom he fpeaks, and intimates
the perfon he likes belt: the ceremony of the handker¬
chief, which the grand fignior is faid to throw to the
girl that he eledfs, is an idle tale, without any founda¬
tion. As foon as the grand fignior has chofen the girl
that he has deftined to be the partner of his bed, all the
others follow her to the bath, waffling and perfuming
her, and dreffing her fuperbly, condudting her finging,
dancing, and rejoicing, to the bed-chamber of the
grand fignior, who is generally, on fuch an occafion, al¬
ready in bed. Scarcely has the nerv-eledled favourite
entered the chamber, introduced by the grand eunuch
who is upon guard, than fire kneels down, and when
the fultan calls her, fire creeps into bed to him by the
foot of the bed, if the fultan does not order her, by
efpecial grace, to approach by the fide : after a certain
time, upon a fignal given by the fultan, the governefs
of the girls, with all her fuite, enters the apartment, and
takes her back again, conducing her with the fame ce¬
remony to the women’s apartments ; and if by good
fortune fire becomes pregnant, and is delivered of a boy,
fire is called afahifuitanefs, that is to lay, fultanefs-mo-
ther 5 for the full fon fhe has the honour to be crown¬
ed, and file has the liberty of forming her court.
Eunuchs are alio afiigned for her guard, and for her
particular lervice. No other ladies, though delivered'
of boys, are either crowned or maintained with fuch
coftly diftinction as the firft; however, they have
their fervice apart, and handlome appointments. Af¬
ter the death of the fultan, the mothers of the male
children are fhut up in the old feraglio, from whence
they can never come out any more, unlefs any of
their fons afeend the throne. Baron de Tott in¬
forms us, that the female fl we who becomes the mo¬
ther of a fultan, and lives long enough to fee her fen
mount the throne, is the only woman who at that period
alone acquires the diffindlion of fultana-mother; fhe is
till then in the interior ofher prifon with her fon. The
title of bache hadun, principal woman, is the firft dignity
of the grand fignior’s harem 1 and fhe has a larger
allowance...
SEE [i
allowance than thole who have the title of feeond, third,
and fourth woman, which are the four free women the
Koran allows.
This is a defcription of the grand fignior’s feraglio :
we lhall now add an account of the feraglio or harem,
as it is often called, of the emperor of Morocco, from
the very intcrefting tour of Pdx Lempriere. This gen¬
tleman being a furgeon by profeffion, was admitted into
the harem to prefcribe for fome of the ladies who were
tndifpofed, and was therefore enabled to give a particu¬
lar account of this female prifon, and, what is ftill more
curious, of the manners and behaviour of its inhabi¬
tants.
The harem forms a part of the palace. The apart¬
ments, which are all on the ground floor, are fquare,
very lofty, and four of them inclofe a fpacious fquare
court, into which they open by means of large folding
doors. In the centre of thefe courtSi, which are floor¬
ed with blue and white chequered tiling, is a foun¬
tain, fupplied by pipes from a large refervoir on the
outfide of the palace, which ferves for the frequent
ablutions recommended by the Mahometan religion,
as well as for other purpofes. The whole of the
harem confifts of about twelve of thefe fquare courts,
communicating with each other by narrow paffages,
which afford a free accefs from one part of it to ano¬
ther, and of which all the women are allowed to avail
themfelves.
The apartments are ornamented on the outfide with
beautiful carved wood. In the infide molt of the rooms
are hung with rich damafk of various colours; the floors
are covered wTith beautiful carpets, and there are matref-
fes difpofed at different diftances, for the purpofes of fit¬
ting and fieeping.
Befides thefe, the apartments are furnifhed at each
extremity with an elegant European mahogany bed-
ffead, hung with damafk, having on it feveral mattreffes
placed one over the other, which are covered with va¬
rious coloured filks ; but thefe beds are merely placed
there to ornament the room. In all the apartments,
without exception, the ceiling is wood, carved and
painted. The principal ornaments in fome were large
and valuable looking-glaffes, hung on different parts of
the walls. In others, clocks and watches of different
fizes, in glafs cafes, were difpofed in the fame manner.
The fultana Lalla Batoom and another favourite were
indulged with a whole fquare to themfelves 5 but the
concubines were only each allowed a fingle room.
Each female had a feparate daily allowance from the
emperor, proportioned to the eftimation in which they
were held by him. The late emperor’s allowance was
very trifling : Lalla Douyaw, the favourite fultana, had
very little more than half-a-crown Englifh a-day, and
the others lefs in proportion. It muff be allowed, that
the emperor made them occafional prefents of money,
drefs, and trinkets 5 but this could never be fufficient
to fupport the number of domeftics and other expences
they mull incur. Their greatefl dependence therefore
was on the prefents they received from thofe Europeans
and Moors who vifited the court, and wrho employed
their influence in obtaining fome particular favour from
the emperor. This was the moft fuccefsful mode that
could be adopted. When Mr Lempriere was at Mo¬
rocco, a Jew, defirous of obtaining a very advantage¬
ous favour from the emperor, for which he had been a
1
68 ] SEE
long time uniuccefsfully foliciting, fent to all the prim Serr,gljf3.
cipal ladies of the harem prefents of pearls to a very~y~*
large amount j the confequence was, that they all went
in a body to the emperor, and immediately obtained the
wifhedrfor concefhon.
The ladies feparately furnifh their own rooms, hire
their own domeftics, and, in fadt, do what they pleafe
in the harem, but are not permitted to go out without
an exprefs order from the emperor, who very feldom
grants them that favour, except when they are to be re¬
moved from one palace to another. In that cafe, a
party of foldiers is difpatched a little diftance before
them, to difperfe the male paflengers in particular, and
to prevent the poflibility of their being feen. This
previous flep being taken, a piece of linen cloth is tied
round the lower part of the face, and afterwards thefe
miferable females cover themfelves entirely with their
haicks, and either mount mules, which they ride like
men, or, what is more ufual, are put into a fquare car¬
riage or litter, conftrufled for this purpofe, which by
its lattice-vork allows them to fee without being feen.
In this manner they fet off, under the charge of a guard
of black eunuchs. This journey, and fometimes a walk
within the bounds of the palace, with which they are,
however, feldom indulged, is the only exercife they are
permitted to take.
The late emperor’s harem confifted of between 60
and 100 females, befides their domeftics and flaves,
which were very numerous. Many of the concubines!
were Moorifh women, who had been prefented to the
emperor, as the Moors confider it an honour to have
their daughters in the harem •, feveral were European
flaves, who had either been made captives, or purchafed
by the emperor •, and fome were Negroes.
In this group the Europeans, or their defcendants,
had by far the greateft claim to the character of hand-
fome. There was one in particular, who was a native
of Spain, and taken into the harem at about the fame
age as Lalla Douyaw, who was indeed a perfect beauty.
Nor was this lady quite fingular in that refpedl, for
many others were almoft equally handfome.
The eunuchs, who have the entire charge of the wo¬
men, and who in faft live always among them, are the
children of Negro flaves. They are generally either
very ftiort and fat, or elfe tall, deformed, and lame-
Their voices have that particular tone which is obfer-
vable in youths who are juft arriving at manhood 5 and
their perfons altogether afford a difgufting image of
weaknefs and effeminacy.
The fame gentleman gives us a very curious account
of the manners and ignorance of thefe immured females,
from his own obfervation, when vifiting the prince’s ha¬
rem. “ Attended by an eunuch (fays he), after pafling
the gate of the harem, which is always locked, and un¬
der the care of a guard of eunuchs, we entered a nar¬
row and dark paffage, which foon brought us to the
court, into which the women’s chambers open. We
here faw numbers of both black and white women and
children ; fome concubines, fome flaves, and others hi¬
red domeftics.
“ Upon their obferving the unufual figure of an Eu¬
ropean, the whole multitude in a body furrounded me,
and expreffed the utmoft aftonifliment at my drefs and
appearance. Some flood motionlefs, with their hands
lifted up, their eyes fixed, and their mouths open, in
the
I
SEE. [ !
Seraglio, the ufual attitude of wonder and furprife. Some burft
into immoderate fits of laughter ; while others again
came up, and with uncommon attention eyed me from
l-i r> n rl "f rsrt f I n Tiorf-c rvf r\\\7 r!i*#-1c xa; i • i r- n
head to foot. The parts of my drefs which leemed
moft to attradl their notice were my buckles, buttons,
and dockings 5 for neither men nor women in this coun¬
try wear any thing of the kind. With refpeft to the
club of my hair, they feemed utterly at a lots in what
view to ccnfider it ; but the powder which I wore they
conceived to be employed ior the purpofe of deftroy-
ing vermin. Moft of the children, when they faw me,
ran away in the meft perfedl ccnfternation j and on the
whole, I appeared as ftngular an animal, and J dare lay
had the honour of exciting as much cunclity and at¬
tention, as a lion or man-tiger juft imported from
abroad, and introduced into a country town in England
on a market-day. Every time I vifited the harem, I
was furrounded and laughed at by this curious mob,
who, on my entering the gate, followed me clofe to the
very chamber to which 1 was proceeding, and on my
return univerfally efcorted me out.
“ The greateft part o£ the women were uncommonly
Fat and unwieldy j had black and full eyes, round faces,
with fmall nofes. They were of different complexions ;
fome very fair, fome fallow, and others again perfedt
Negroes.
“ One of my new patients being ready to receive me,
I was defired to walk into her room j where, to my
great furprife, I faw nothing but a curtain drawn quite
» acrofs the apartment, fimilar to that of a theatre which
feparates the ftage from the audience. A female do-
meftic brought a very low ftool, placed it near the cur¬
tain, and told me I was to lit down there, and feel her
miftrefs’s pulfe.
“ The lady, who had by this time fummoned up cou¬
rage to fpeak, introduced her hand from the bottom of
the curtain, and defired me to inform her of all her com¬
plaints, which Ihe conceived I might perfedlly do by
merely feeling the pulfe. It was in vain to afk her
where her pain was feated, whether in her ftomacb,
head, or back 5 the only anfwer I could procure v as a
requeft to feel the pulfe of the other hand, and then
point out the feat of the difeafe, and the nature of the
pain.
“ Having neither fatisfied my curiofity by exhibiting
her face, nor made me acquainted with the nature of
her complaint, I was under the neceftity of informing
her in pofitive terms, that to underftand the difeafe it
was abfolutely neceffary to fee the tongue as well as to
feel the pulfe ; and that without it I could do nothing
ior her. My eloquence, or rather that of my Jewilh in¬
terpreter, was, however, for along time exerted in vain ;
»nd I am perfuaded Ihe would have difmiffed me without
any further inquiry, had not her invention fupplied her
with a happy expedient to remove her embnrraffment.
She contrived at laft to cut a hole through the curtain,
through which (he extruded her tongue, and thus com¬
plied with my injunction as far as it was neceffary in a
medical view, but moft effeftually difappointed my cu¬
riofity.
41 I was afterwards ordei-ed to look at another of the
prince’s wives, who was affefted with a fcrophulous
‘Welling in ner neck. Ihis lady was, in the fame man¬
ner as the other, at firft excluded from my fight 5 but
as fiie was obliged to (how me her complaint, I had an
Vol. XIX. Part I.
69 ] SEE.
opportunity of feeing her face, and obferved it lo be Seragliii
very handfome.” IS
It is curious to obferve the ftrange and childifti no-1 ,
tions of perfons who have been wholly fecluded from
the world. All the ladies of the harem expefted that
our author fhould have inftantly difeovered their com¬
plaints upon feeling the pulfe, and that he could cure
every difeafe infiantanecufiy. He found them proud
and vain of their perfons, and extremely ignorant. “ A-
mong many ridiculous queftions, they alked my inter¬
preter (fays Mr Lemprieie) if I could read and write ;
upon being anfwered in the affirmative, they expreffed
the utmoft lurprife and admiration at the abilities of
the Chriftians. There was not one among them who
could do either 5 thefe rudiments of learning are indeed
only the lot of a few of their men, who on.that ac¬
count are named Ta/bs, or explainers of the Mahometan
lew.”
It is melancholy to refleCl on the fituation of thefe
unfortunate women. Being confidered as the mere in-
ftruments of pleafure, no attention is paid to the im •
proven!ent of their minds. They have no employment
to occupy their time. Their needle-work is per'brmcd
by Jeweffes j their food is drtfled, and their chambers
taken care of, by flaves and domeftics. They have r.o
amufement but a rude and barbarous kind of melan¬
choly mufic, without melody, variety, or tafte ; and
converfation with one another, which muft indeed be
very confined, uniform, and inanimate, as they never
fee a new objeft. Excluded from the enjoyment of
frefh air and exercife, fo neceffary for the fupport of
health and life ; deprived of all fociety but that of their
fellow fufferers, a fociety to which moft of them would
prefer fblitude iifelf 5 they are only to be confidered as
the moft abjeft of flaves-—flaves to the vices and ca¬
price of a licentious tyrant, who exafts even from his
wives themfelves a degree of fubmiffion and refperit
which borders upon idolatry, and which God and na¬
ture riever meant ftiould he paid to a mortal.
SERAI, a building on the high-road, or in large ci¬
ties in India, ereded for the accommodation of travel¬
lers.
SERAPH, or Seraphim, fpirits of the higheft rank
in the h erarchy of angels, who are thus called from
their being fuppoled to be moft inflamed with divine
love, by their nearer and more immediate attendance at
the throne of God, and to communicate their fervour to
the remoter and inferior orders. Seraphim is the Hebrew
plural of feraph. See Angel.
_ SERAPHIC, burning or inflamed with love or zeal,
like a feraphim : thus St Bonaventure is called the fera~
ptiic do£lor, from his abundant zeal and fervour.
SERAPIAS, a genus of plants belonging to the clafs
of gynandria; and in the natural fyftem arranged under
the feventh order Or chid etc. See Botany Indtx.
SERAPION, a phyfician of Alexandria. He and
Philinus of the ifle of Cos were both fcholars of Hero-
philus, and were founders of the empiric fed 5 which
happened about 287 B. C.
SERA PIS, in Mythology, an Egyptian deity, who
was worfhipped under various names and attributes, as,
the tutelary god of Egypt in general, and as the patron
of feveral of their principal cities. Tacitus informs us,
that he was worfhipped as a kind of univerfal deity that
reprefenied Efculapius, Ofiris, Jupiter, and Pluto : and
Y he
S E R
Scrapis he was fometimes taken for Jupiter Ammon, the Sun,
_ M and Neptune : and the honours that were rendered to
i ' Y ‘ . him at Alexandria were more folemn and extraordinary
than thofe of any other place.
Plutarch and Clemens of Alexandria, as well as Ta-
* Tac. #//?.citus*, inform us, that -while the firft Ptolemy was em-
lib. iv. ployed in fortifying Alexandria with walls, adorning it
Cpiut?'de with temples and llately buildings, there appeared to
1/ids et Oft him in his deep a young man of extraordinary beauty,
ride. Clem, of a flature more than human, admonifhing him to dif-
AleX' in patch into Pontus fome of his mod; trufty friends to
/ o rep. bring from thence his ftatue : he affured him, that the
city and kingdom which pofleffed it Ihould prove hap¬
py, glorious, and powerful. The young man having
thus fpoken, difappeared, mounting up into heaven in a
blaze of fire.
Ptolemy difcovered his vifion to the priefts j but find¬
ing them ignorant of Pontus, he had recourfe to an A-
thenian, who informed him that near Sinope, a city of
Pontus, there was a temple much reforted to by the
natives, which was confecrated to Pluto, wdrere he had
a rtatue, near which Hood that of a woman. Ptolemy,
neglecting the injunctions of the apparition, it again
appeared to him in a menacing attitude \ and the king
immediately difpatched ambaffadors to the Serapian mo¬
narch, loaded with prefents. The king of Sinope con-
fented ; but his fubjeCts oppofed the removal of the fta¬
tue. The god, however, of his own accord, as we are
informed, conveyed himfelf to the ambaflador’s ftiip, and
in three days landed in Alexandria. The ftatue of Se-
rapis was eredted in one of the fuburbs of the city, where
a magnificent temple wras afterwards reared.
The ftatue of Serapis, according to Macrobius, wras
of a human form, wfith a bafket or buftiel on his head,
fignifying plenty 5 his right hand leaned on the head
of a ferpent, whofe body was wxmnd round a figure
with three heads, of a dog, a lion, and a wTolf j in his
left hand he held a meafure of a cubit length, as it were
to take the height of the waters of the Nile. The figure
of Serapis is found on many ancient medals.
The famous temple of Serapis at Alexandria was
deftroyed by order of Theodofius j and the celebrated
ftatue of this deity w^as broken in pieces, and its limbs
carried firft in triumph by the Chriftians through the
city, and then thrown into a fierce fire, kindled for that
purpofe in the amphitheatre. As the Egyptians afcri-
bed the overflowing of the Nile, to which was owing
the fertility of their country, to the benign influence of
their god Serapis, they concluded, that nowr he was
deftroyed, the river would no longer overflow, and that
a general famine wmuld enfue ; but when they obferved,
on the contrary, that the Nile fwelled to a greater
height than had been known in the memory of man,
and thereby produced an immenfe plenty of all kinds
of provifions, many of the pagans renouncing the w'or-
ihip of idols, adored the God of the Chriftians.
SERENA gutta, the fame as amaurojls. See Me¬
dicine, N° 360.
SERENADE, a kind of concert given in the night
bv a lover to his miftrefs, under her window. Thefe
fometimes only confift of inftrumental mufic, but at
other times voices are added : the mufic and fongs com-
pofed for thefe occafions are alfo called fercnades.
SERENE, a title of honour given to feveral princes
and to the principal magiftrates of republics. The king
SEE
of Britain, the republic and doge of Venice, and the Serene
children of the king of Spain, are called mqft ferene ; H
and when the pope or the facred college write to the , Serge*
emperor, to kings, or to the doge, they give them no
other title. In like manner, the emperor gives no other
title to any king, except to the king of France.
SERENUS, Sammonicus, a celebrated phyfician
in the reigns of the emperors Severus and Caracalla, in
and about the year 200. He wrote feveral treatifes on
hiftory and the wTorks of nature; but there is only one
of them extant, which is a very indifferent poem on the
Remedies of Difeafes. He was murdered at a feftival
by the order of Caracalla. He had a library that con¬
tained 62,000 volumes, which Quintus Serenus Sam¬
monicus his fon gave to Gordian the Younger, to whom
he was preceptor.
SERES (Ptolemy) j a people of the Farther Afia j
bounded on the weft by Scythia extra Imaum j on the
north and eaft, by Terra Incognita $ and on the fouth,
by India extra Gangem. According to thefe limitr,
their country anfwers nearly to Cathoy or North China.
Other authors vary greatly in placing them, though the
generality agree in placing them far to the eaft. Mela
places them between the Indi and Scythse 5 and perhaps
beyond the Indi, if wre diftinguifh the Sinae from them.
The ancients commend them for their cotton manufac¬
tures, different from the produce of the bombyces or
filk-worms, called feres by the Greeks 5 whence /erica,
« filk.”
SERGE, a woollen quilted fluff, manufa&ured on a
loom with four treddles, after the manner of rateens,
and other fluffs that have the whale. The goodnefs of
ferges is known by the quilting, as that of cloths by
the fpinning. Of ferges there are various kinds, deno¬
minated either from the different qualities thereof, or
from the places where they are wrought. The moft
confiderable is the Eon don ferge, now highly valued
abroad, particularly in France, where a manufafture is
carried on with confiderable fuccefs, under the title of
ferge fagon de Londres.
The method of making the London ferge we {hall
now deferibe : For wool, the longeft is cholen for the
warp, and the fliorteft for the woof. Before either kind
is ufed, it is firft fcoured, by putting it in a copper of
liquor, fomewhat more than lukewarm, compofed of
three parts of fair water and one of urine. After
having flayed long enough therein for the liquor to
diffolve, and take off the greafe, &c. it is ftirred brilkly
about with a wooden peel; taken out of the liquor,
drained, and waftied in a running water, dried in the
{hade, beaten with flicks on a wooden rack to drive
out the coarfer duft and filth, and then picked clean
with the hands. Thus far prepared, it is greafed with
oil of olives, and the longeft part, deftined for the warp,
is combed with large combs, heated in a little furnace
for the purpofe. To clear off the oil again, the wool
is put in a liquor compofed of hot water, with foap
melted therein : whence being taken out, wrung, and
dried, it is fpun on the wheel.
As to the ftiorter wool, intended for the woof, it
is only carded on the knee with {mall cards, and then
fpun on the wheel, without being fcoured of its oil.
It muft be remarked, that the thread for the warp is al¬
ways to be fpun much finer, and better twilled than
that of the woof. The wool both for the warp and
t 17° 1
S E R [ I
Serge, t’ue woof being fpun, and the thread divided into fleams,
Sergeant. tUot of the woof is put on fpools (unlefs it have been
 1 fpUn upon them) fit for the cavity or eye of the flmttle j
and that for the warp is wound on a kind of wooden
bobbins to fit it for warping. When warped, it 15
ened with a kind of fize, whereof that made oi the
ftireds of parchment is held the beft j and when dry is
put on the loom.
When mounted on the loom, the workman railing
and lowering the threads (wdiich are palled through a
reed), by means of four treddles placed underneath the
loom, which he makes to aft tranfverlely, equally, and
alternately, one after another, with his feet, in propor¬
tion as the threads are raifed and lowered, throws the
(buttle acrofs from one fide to the other j and each
time that the Ihuttle is thrown, and the thread of the
woof is croffed between thofe of the warp, ftnkes it
with the frame to wdiich the reed is fattened, through
thofe teeth the threads of the warp pafs *, and this
ftroke he repeats twice or thrice, or even more, till he
judges the eroding of the ferge fufficiently clofe : thus
he proceeds till the warp is all filled with woof.
The ferge now taken off the loom is carried to the
fuller, who fcours it in the trough of his mill with a
kind of fat earth, called fuller's eartn, firft purged o
all ftones and filth. After three or four hours fcouiing,
the fuller’s earth is wattied out in fair water, brought by
little and little into the trough, out of which it is taken
when all the earth is cleared ; then, with a kind of iron
pincers or plyers, they pull off all the knots, ends,
draws, &c. flicking out on the furface on either fide j
and then returning it into the fulling trough, where it
is worked with water fomewhat mors tnan lukewarm,
with foap diiTolved therein for near two hours : it is
then wattied out till fuch time as the water becomes
quite clear, and there be no figns of foap left \ then it
is taken out of the trough, the knots, &c. again putted
off, and then put on the tenter to dry, taking care as
fall as it dries to ftretch it out both in length and
breadth till it be brought to its juft dxmenfions. When
well dried, it is taken off the tenter, and dyed, (horn,
and preffed. r i r -jr
SERGEANT, or Serjeant at Law, or oj the Coif,
is the higheft degree taken at the common lawr, as that
of Doftor is of the civil law ; and as thefe are fuppofed
to be the mott learned and experienced in the practice
of the courts, there is one court appointed for them to
plead in by themlelves, which is the common pleas,
where the common law of England is moft ftriftly ob-
ferved : but they are not reftrifted from pleading in any
other court, where the judges, who cannot have that
honour till they have taken the degree of ferjeant at law,
call them brothers.
SERGEANT at Arms, or Mace, an officer appointed
to attend the perfon of the king ; to arreft traitors, and
fuch perfons of qilality as offend ; and to attend the lord
high fteward, when fitting in judgement on a traitor.
Of thefe, by ftatute 13 Richard II. cap. 6. there are
not to be above 30 in the realm. There are now nine
at court at tool, per annum falary each *, they are catt¬
ed the king's fergeants at arms, to diftinguifli them from
others : they are created with great ceremony, the per¬
fon kneeling before the king, his majefty lays the mace
on his right fhouldcr, and fays, Rife up,fergecnt at arms,
71 ] ■ s E R
and efqaire for ever. They have, befules, a patent fur
the office, which they hold for life.
They have their attendance in the pretence-chamber, _
where the band of gentlemen-penfioners wait j and, re¬
ceiving the king at the door, they carry the maces be¬
fore him to the chapel door, whillt the band ot penfioners
ftand foremoft, and make a lane for the king, as they
alfo do when the king goes to the houfe of lords. _
There are four other fergeants at arms, created m the
fame manner j one, who attends the lord chancellor- a
fecond, the lord treafurer j a third, the fpeaker of the
houfe of commons 5 and a fourth, the lord mayor of
London on folemn occafions. . ,
They have a confiderable ftiare of the xees^o. honour,
and travelling charges allowed them when in waiting,
viz. five (hillings per day when the court is within ten
miles of London, and ten (hillings when twenty miles
from London. The places are in the lord chamberlain s
gl There are alfo fergeants of the mace of an inferior
kind, who attend the mayor or other head officer of a
C°YCommon SERGEANT, an officer in the city of London,
who attends the lord mayor and court of aldermen on
court days, and is in council with them on all occafions,
within and without the precinfts or liberties of the city.
He is to take care of orphans eftates, either by taking
account of them, or to fign their indentures, before then
pafling the lord mayor and court of aldermen : and he
was likewife to let and manage the orphan eftates, ac¬
cording to his judgement to their beft advantage, bee
Recorder. j m •„
Sergeant, in War, is an uncommiffioned officer in
a company of foot or troop of dragoons, armed with
an halbert, and appointed to fee difeiphne obferved,
to teach the foldiers the exercife of their arms, to order,
ftraiten, and form their ranks, files, &c. He receives
the orders from'the adjutant, which he communicates
to his officers. Each company generally has two fer-
^ SERGEANTY (Serjeantia), fignifies, in law, a fer-
vice that cannot be due by a tenant to any lord but the
king : and this is either grand fergeanty, or petit. 1 he
firft is a tenure by which the one holds his lands of the
king by fuch fervices as he ought to do in perfon to the
king at his coronation j and may alfo concern matters
military, or fervices of honour in peace ; as to be the
king’s butler, carver, &c. Petit fergeanty is where a
man holds lands of the king to furnifti him yearly with
fome fmall thing towards his wars ; and m effeft pay¬
able as rent. Though all tenures are turned into foccage
bv the 12 Car. II. cap. 24. yet the honorary fervices 01
grand fergeanty ftill remain, being therein excepted. See
KNIGHT-Service. . , r „
SERIES, in general, denotes a continual iucceluon.
of things *m’the fame order, and having the fame rela¬
tion or conneftion with each other : in this fenfe wre lay,
a feries of emperors, kings, biftiops, &c.
In natural hiftory, a feries is ufed for an oruer or iub-
divifion of fome clafs of natural bodies j comprehending^
all fuch as are diftinguiffied from the other bodies 01
that clafs, by certain charafters which they poffefs m
common, and which the reft o( the bodies of that cal.
have not. ^ > r.
Y 2 C1-) Series,
Sergeant
il
Series.
Series.
S E R [ 172 ] S E R
(1.) SERIES, in Arithmetic or Algebra, a rank or
progreffion of quantities which fucceed one another ac¬
cording to fome determinate law. For example, the
numbers
putting as before A, B, C, D, &c. for the terms of the
ferics, and m, n, />, q for given quantities, wre ihall have
another recurring feries, if we fuppofe them fo related
that
Series.
3> 5> 7> 9> ”, I3» I5» &c-
conftitute a feries, the law of which is that each term
exceeds that before it by a given number, viz. 2. A-
gain, the numbers
3, 6, 12, 24, 48, 96, 192, &c.
eonflitute a feries of a different kind, each term being
the produdl of the term before it, and the given num¬
ber 2.
(2.) As the law according to which the terms of a
feries are formed may be infinitely varied, there may be
innumerable kinds of feries ; we fhall enumerate a few
of the moil common.
1. Arithmetical Series. The general form of a feries
of this kind is
a, a-\-d, a-\-2d, «+ 3 d, «+4&cc'
m A-f-« C-\-q D=o,
m B-b« C-{-/> D + 1? Frzo,
wz C-}-» D+/> F^0,.
The two feries of quantities fin. a, fin. 2 a, fin. 3 a, &tc.
and cof. a, cof. 2 a, cof. 3 a, &c. are both recurring, as
is manifeft from the law which conne&s the quantities
one with another. (See Algebra, §. 35 8.y.
(3.) As in general it is the him of the terms of a fe¬
ries which is the objed of inveiligation, it is ufual to
conned them by the iign -f or —, and to apply the
name feries to the expreflion thus formed. Accor¬
dingly
i+S + i + T + P ‘ + -^1 + 2 (« l)^-
(where n denotes the number of terms) is called an arith¬
metical feries j and in like manner
and its law is that the difference between any two ad¬
jacent terms is the fame quantity, viz. d. The firft of
the two preceding examples is a feries of this nature.
2. Geometrical Series. Its general form is
a, ar, a r*, a A, a rA, &c.
In this kind of feries each term is the produd of that
which precedes it and a conftant number r, which is
called the common ratio of the terms. The fecond of
the above examples is a particular cafe of a geometrical
feries.
3. Harmonic Series is that in which the firft of any
three of its confecutive terms is to the third, as the dif¬
ference between the firft and fecond to the difference
between the fecond and third : hence we readily find
that putting a and b for its two firft terms, its general
form will be
a, b,
a b
a b
ab 
l a—b' 3 a—2 b' 4 a—3 b'
, &c.
If we fuppofe az=.i and b-=.\, we get
1, It t> t> h &-c*
as a particular example of a harmonic feries.
4. Recurring Series. Let its terms be denoted by
A, B, C, D, E, F, Sec.
Then, we fhall form a recurring feries, if m and n being
put for given quantities, we take
C=:f« B, H—m C-\-n D,
D=:otB4-«C, FzztfzD-i-rcE.
For example, let us fuppofe Am, B=:2 x, m—4 x*,
n—^ x; then C=iox’1, D = 38#3, £=154 a4, Fzr
614 x5, fo that the firft fix terms of the feries are
I, 2 X, XO X*, 38 A?3, 154 A4, 614 A5.
We have here fuppofed each term to be formed from
the two which come immediately before it; but the
name recurring feries is given to every one in which the
terms are formed in like manner from fome afligned
number of the terms which precede that fought. Thus,
I+v+i+i’'‘ + ^T—r
is a geometrical feries.
(4.) A feries may either confift of a definite number
of terms, or their number may be fuppofed greater than
any that can be afligned, and in this cafe the feries is
faid to be infinite. The number of terms of a feries
may be infinite, and yet their fum finite. This is true:
for example, of the feries
which is equivalent to unity, or 1.
(5.) We have already treated of feveral branches of
the do&rine of feries in the articles Algebra, Fluxions
and Logarithms 5 and in particular we have given
four different methods for expanding a quantity into a
feries, viz.
1. By Divifion or Evolution. (See Algebra, § 78,
and § 260.).
2. By the Method of Indeterminate Coefiicients. (Al¬
gebra, § 261.).
3. By the Binomial Theorem. (Algebra, § 263—
§ 269.).
4. By Taylor's Theorem. (Fluxions, § 66—§ 72.).
We fhall here treat briefly of another branch of the
theory, namely, how to find the fum of any propofed
number of terms of certain feries, or the fum of their
terms continued ad infinitum, when that fum is finite.
(6.) There is a great analogy between the terms of a
feries and the ordinates of a curve which are fuppofed
to ftand upon the axis at equal diftances from one ano¬
ther, the firft ordinate reckoned from the extremity of
the axes being analogous to the firft term of the feries,
the-fecond ordinate to the fecond term, and fo on.
From this analogy it follows immediately, that like as
the nature of a curve is indicated by an equation ex¬
prefling the value of an indefinite ordinate in terms of
its correfponding abfeiffa, fo alfo the nature of a feries
may be ihown by an equation which Ihall exprefs the
relation between any term j and the number that de¬
notes the place or order of that term in the feries. In
conformity
SEE.
[ 173 ]
Series, conformity to this method, putting the fymbolsTV),
' X(2), To), &c. to denote the terms of any feries
whatever, we may exprefs it generally thus.
T<«), 4- T(z), To), • • • -j- T t’')
where the characters (x), (2), are meant to denote the
place or order of the terms to which they are joined,
(the firit term being fuppofed to have the place x, the
fecond term the place 2, and fo on) and (x)) is put for
any indefinite number.
The nature of the arithmetical feries
o -|— (# -j-* “f“ (hx —2 d) —|— f^ T" 3 »
will be defined by the equation
Tw = —1)</,
and, in like manner, the nature of the geometrical
ieries . . .
a-j-a r-\-a r*-j-a r*, &c.
will be expreffed by the equation
T w = a r^1.
(7.) As the expreffion for the value of the in¬
definite term T (*0 becomes identical wdth all the
terms of the feries in fuccefiion, by fubftituting the
numbers x, 2, 3, &c. one after another for v, that ex-
prefiion is called the general term of the feries. In the
feries
, a b a b ab
a-'tb-}r~r:—r + 7T n+ ~—n-b ^c*
2 a—b
the general term is evidently
3fl—2 b qa—^b
a b
{y—i)a—(v—2)b'
(8.) We fliall now invefligate the fum of any num¬
ber of terms of fuch feries as have their general terms
exprefled by any one of the following algebraic func¬
tions
v(v-J-i) v(v+i)(v-)-2') ■x>(T;4-0(T'4-2X‘y+3')
I * 2
X * 2 * 3
&c.
X • 2 • 3
Problem I. It is propofed to find the fum of n terms
of the feries of which the general term is the firit func¬
tion.
By putting 1, 2, 3, &c. to n fucceflively for w, it
appears that the feries to be fummed is
1 -f 2 + 3+4 ‘ * ‘
txt Xti-f-i) —I)‘y ,
Now, as —-2_J—— — 2—we have, by put¬
ting in this formula 1, 2r 3, • • • to « fucceffively for vy
1 • 2
2 • 3
2=-——
3=^ 
J 2
4'5
1 • 2
2
2’3
   "T
2
3-4
n—1—
S E K
.i)« (n—2)(«—-x)
Series.
Let the fum of the quantities on each fide of the fign
=: be now taken 5 then, obferving that each of the frac¬
tions on the right hand fide, with the exception of
«(«-}-i) . '
——, occurs twice, once with the fign -f, and
again with the fign —, by which it happens that their
aggregate is =0, it is evident that w’e have
. . . «(«-4-1)
Prob. II. It is propofed to fum n terms of the fe¬
ries having for its general term the fecond funClion
^(■y-j-x)
1*2
This feries, by fubftituting 1, 2, 3, &c. fucceflively
for 71, is found to be
1 ‘ 2,2 • 3 , 3J_4 . . . ■ «(«+i)_
I • 2*1 • 2*1 “2 ‘ I • 2 *
We now, following the mode of proceeding employed
in laft problem, put the expreflion —v- A under this
1*2
form,
7l(71 -j- I) (71 2) (7! l)7>(71-pi)
i • 2 • 3 i • a7! ’
to which it is evidently equivalent, and, fubftituting x,
2, 3, &c. fucceflively for 71, find
 — ^   o,
1 • 2 I • 2 * 3
2 * 3_ 2 • 3 • 4
I • 2 I ‘ 2 ‘ 3
3‘4=_3: 4 * 5
x • 2 1 • 2 ,• 3
4 ‘ 5 4 ‘ 5 ‘ ^ ,
x • 2 1 • 2'3
1 ’ 2 • 3 ~
1 • 2 * 3’
2 * 3 ‘ 4 ■
i • 2 • 3’.
3‘ 4 * 5
i • 2 • 3’
- - - ” 3 • 2 * 3 3 ‘ 2 -"l
I * 2
In this problem, as in the former, it appears that
each quantity on the right fide of the equations, except
«(ra-|-1) (n-4-2) . i.s
—— ’ occurs twice, and with contrary figns 3
therefore, taking the aggregate of the terms on each
fide, we have
1^-1 171 + 314,415... »(»+■) ,
I * 2 1 I * 2 I * 2 1 I * 2 r 1*2
_n(n + i)(»+2)
1 • 2. * 3
(9.) It will be obvious, by a little attention to the
folutions of thefe two problems, that in each the terms of
the feries to be fummed are thd differences betwixt tho
adjacent
S E R
Series.
adjacent terms of another feries, namely, that which
has for its general term the fundlion next in order to
the general term of the feries under confideration ; that
is, the terms of the feries whofe general term is v, are
the differences betwixt thofe of the feries having
—J \ 2— l01, !ts general terms j and, again, the terms
of this laft are the differences of the terms of the feries
having —^ ^°r Senera^ term« NowT as
the fum of the differences of any feries of quantities
whatever which begins with o muff neceffarily be the
laff term of that feries *, it follows, that the fum of
all the terms of each of the feries we have confidered
muff be equal to the laft term of the next following fe¬
ries ; and this term is neceffarily the expreflion formed
by fubftituting n for v in its general term, that is, the
fum of the feries • • • -J-», which has v for its
^ ^ : and the fum of the feries
[ I7+ ]
S E R
general term, is
2*3 ,3*4
+ 4
«0+0
I • 2 ’ I * 2 • I • 2
i5 ”(”+0(” + 2)
I • 2-3
The next feries which has —^c 4~ 2) for jts
1 • 2 ■ 3 &
neral term, as well as all that fucceed, will be found to
have the very fame property, as may be proved as fol¬
lows. Let /> denote any term of the feries of natural
numbers 1, 2, 3, &c. Then, becaufe
 v + /> v—1
+ 1 ~ +
if we multiply thefe equals by the product of all the fac¬
tors v,
U-J-I V-f-2
&c. to
*+/>-
I • 2 • 3
"^+0(^4-2) •
P
1 0+/’—0
'p
we get
V    
= J 1 * 2* 3 • • (/>4-0
I (^—• • • (v+fi—l)
i I • 2 - 3--- (^+1)
Now, if in this identical equation we fubftitute the
numbers 1, 2, 3, &.c. to n fucceflively for v, the re-
fults obtained from its firft member
^(^+0(^ + 2) ••• (t) +/>--1)
l' 2-f-p
will be a feries having this fun£Hon for its general term,
and the terms of which will evidently be the difference
between the terms of another feries having the firft part
of the fecond member of the equation, viz.
i-2-3 •••(/+!) ’
for its general term : Hence it will happen, as in the Series.
two foregoing problems, that the fum of all the terms  v—
of the former feries will be equal to the laft term of the
latter ; which conclufion may be expreffed in the form
of a theorem, as follows :
Theorem. The fum of n terms of a feries having
for its general term the funftion,
v (^4-1) (^-f2) • • • (v+fi—1)
I • 2 * 3 * * ' P
is equal to
« 0-f-i)(ft-}.2) Q+/0
Z-2-3---0+I)
Or, fetting afide the denominators of the terms, WTe
may exprefs the theorem thus : The fum of n terms of
a feries, having for its general term the exprejjion
is equal to
n (”4-0 (” + 2) •••(?;+/.)
We fiiall here give a few particular cafes of this laft
general formula.
x- 1 +2+3+4* * * -f ”
__ « (n-p.x)
II.
i- 2-f2-3-f3-4-f4*5--* +«(”+I)
_ n (tf-f 1) («+2)
“ 3
III. 1 3-44-3-4- 5 •••+*(«+!) («+2)
_r?(«+x)(ff + 2) (« + 3)
4
(10.) By means of the above general theorem we may
find the fum of any number of terms of a feries com-
pofed of the powers of the terms of an arithmetical pro-
grefiion, the general term of which will, in the fimpleft
cafe, be vp, p being a given number. The manner of
doing this will appear from the following problems.
Pros. III. It is propofed to find the fum of n terms
of the feries of fquares 14-44-94-164-25&c. or
i*4-2i+3*+4*+5*+ &c.
The general term of this feries being vP, we put it
under this form, v (^4-1)—v ; hence we get by fub*
ftituting 1, 2, 3, &c. for v,
i*=rl • 2—1,
2*=2- 3—2,
3*= 3 * 4—3>
4*—4 * 5—4.
(«+l)—tt.
Therefore adding, wre find
I*+2*+3*+4» ••••+«*
__C x *24-2*34-3 •44-4* 5 •••4-«(«4-i)
L —(4 + 2+3 +4 * * ’ +”)•
But
* x'or example, let the quantities be 0, a, b, r, then it is manifeft that —0) 4-(£—-fl) + +
(d—c)zz el
4
Seiies.
S E R
But by the general theorem (9.)
1 • 2-f-2'3+3 * 4* " +” C” + 0
[ 175 1
Corollary.
s E R
We have found (Pros. I.) that
n (« + i)
1 + 2+3 +4 * ’ +n=   »
Series.
and, ! + 2 + 3 + 4 ‘ * * +«—   >
therefore, comparing this with the refult juft now ob'
tained, it is evident that
therefore i1^-2*4-3*+4!1 * * *+«*
h(«4-i)(« + 2) //(r/jfx)
”3 2
«(« + i) (2« + i)
- 6
We might have arrived at the fame conclufion by
confidering that fince t>\ the general term of the fenes,
is equivalent to v (<y-|-i)—-y, the feries muft be the dif¬
ference between two others, one having (^+1) and
the other v for its general term ; for the fake of penpi-
cuity, however, we have put down the terms of all the
three feries.
Prob. IV. It is propofed to find the fum of « terms
of the feries
i,+ 23+3,+4s + 53+ &c-
The general term in this cafe is v3 5 now to transform
this funflion, fo as to deduce the fum of the feries from
the general theorem, we affume
v3=zv (■y-f 2)-f-A v (“y+O+B v,
where A and B denote quantities which are to have
fuch values as {hall render the two fides of the equation
identical whatever be the value of v ; taking now the
produtt of the factors, we have
+ (A+3) |y*+(A+B-f-2)t»,
Therefore, by the theory of indeterminate coefficients,
(Algebra, § 261.)
A+3 = o, A+B-f2=o:
Hence we find Arr —3, Brr —A—2=1 j thus it ap¬
pears that v being any number whatever,
v3—v (114-1) (^4-2)—3 v (^4*1) +v*
Now, let S denote the fum of n terms of the feries
under confideration, which has v3 for its general term,
and put P, £), R for the like fums of the three feries,
whofe general terms are the fumftions v (/y + i) (^+2),
v (<y 4* x) and v refpe&ively ; then, it is evident that
S=P—3Q^4-R. But by the theorem, (9.)
t, n(« + x)(«+2) («+3)
p_   .
(«4-l) (« + 2)
i ’
r_”(”+i)?
therefore,
,_”(ff+1)(;?+2)(«4~s)
~n (w+I) Cw+2) +
« (w-f-1)
and by proper reduftion, S, or
l3 + 23 4-33 4-4i • • • ^tC——
(« + 0*
4
(14-24-34-4 * • • 4-«)*=:I3+23 4-33+43 ••’+«3 J
this is a very curious and elegant property of numbers.
(i 1.) It is manifeft that by the mode of proceeding
employed in laft problem we may inveftigate the fum of
n terms of the feries
iw4-2'«4-3;w+4,,;+ &c.
in being any whole pofitive number whatever : and in¬
deed in the very fame way we may find the fum of any
number of terms of a feries, whofe general term is
a4_£ <i>4_c vz-\-dv3 4- &c.
where a and b, &c. denote given numbers j namely, by
transforming it into a funftion of the form
A-j-B u-|-C v (“y+O+D v (■y+x) (i’+2)+ &c.
where A, B, and C, &c. denote conftant quantities.
Our limits, however, will not allow us to go into
particulars.
(12.) The next clafs of feries we {hall confider, com¬
prehends fuch as may be formed by the fucceflive fub-
ftitution o{ a, a + i, a+ 2, &c. {a being put for any
given quantity whatever) in the feries of funftions
1  *  *  } &c»
®(x>4-i)’ t>(‘y4-1)C^, + 2), ^(,;y + I)C‘y + 2)C‘y+3)
We {hall begin with the firft of thefe.
Prob. V. It is propofed to find the fum of « terms of
the feries
1 , l I i l &c.
a(a+iy + (« + 2)(« + 3)
which is formed by fubftituting tf + i, «+2, &c,
fucceflively for v in the general term ^
Whatever be the value of v} we have
therefore,
get
1 — 1 1
^(v-J-x)"** v ^4-1 ’
proceeding as in the foregoing problems, we
X _I X
c(<?-|-t) a tf-j-i
1 __ i 1
(a4-x)(fl + 2)—« + x « + 2*
1 _ i 
(o4-2)(a+3) «+2 0+3’
 1   i i
(<*4-«—2)(d + «—l)~fl+n—2 «4-«—1?
I  __ I X
(fl4_rt—x)(«+»)~ o+»—i <x+«
Here it is evident that the terms of the feries to be
fummed
S E R [ 176 ] S E R
mmmed are the differences betwixt every two adioining it t
•f-o^-£* 1.T /* *  ® ^ I | , I
(<J + i)lv« + 2) ' («+2)(«-f-3)
terms of this other feries.
1.1 1
a a-j-1 a-j-2 ‘ a-\-ny
+
Hence it immediately follows, that the fum of all the confe<luently, the fum of all the terms of the former is
terms of the. former is the difference between the two difference between the extreme terms of the
extreme terms of the latter j that is latter, or is —
1 ■  I_  I T y I I 7
aia+I) (a+0(a+2) i'
 11 -
a a-l- n' , ^ From thefe two particular cafes it is eafy to fee
how we may fum the feries when the general term is
If we fuppofe the feries to be continued ad injinitum, 1
then, as « will be indefinitely great, and —^— indefi-
a-\-n
*'(*' + 1)0 + 2) . . . O+A)’
»itely fmall, the fum will be Amply or in other ^ bc!nS an7 "'hole number whatever ; ^ Bnce
words, the fraction - is a limit to the fum of the feries.
*'(*'+/’) v 'l;+/),
therefore, multiplying the denominaters by all the fac-
Prob. \ I. Let it be required to find the fum of n tors which are intermediate between v and
•t-vn C -f* 4- + T o i\m.m ^
we have
terms of this feries
1
<70+i)0+2) 0+i)0+2) c«+3)
+
■ + , &c.
0+2) 0+3) 0+4)
the general term in this cafe being
*'0+1)0 + 2) . . . O+P)'
1
*'0+i)0+2)‘
*'0+l)(*' + 2) • .. (v+/>—l)
1
^ , A - 0+00+-2)0+3) •••o+7)‘
“ecaule ———— — ——, therefore, multiplying _T . ,
c(1 + ^) i' *' + 2 Now the latter fide of this equation is a general expref*
by   , we have fi“n for. lbe dificrtnce between any two adjacent terms
of a feiies whole general term is
20+1)’
1
^(^-|-l)(-U-}-2)
4_£_
2 l_v (v + I
0 + 0 0+O0+2)
},
L'VV+ J ) ^ + 2) • • • (*'+/"—1) *
and hence, by fubftituting a, a-J-i, tf-f 2, &c. fuccef- therefore the difference between the firft and laft terms
^ ^ J L V 4 V, 1 C » ■» H L* s~. 4- X-* Zl.« — ^ ■ 1 1
  =. r_i £ 7
"0+00+2) Tt«0 + l) O + lJ0+2)j*
of this ieries muff be the fum of the feries whole gene¬
ral term is the fun&ion on the other fide of the equa¬
tion, viz.
0 + 00 + 2)0 + 3)
) 0 + 3)1 ’
= 4
L O+OO+2)
0 + 2)(
 I = . | £_
0+2)0+3)(fl+4) T lo+oo
o+3)o+iy}
+3)
*',(T'+I)t.*,+ 2) • • . 0“O)'
Hence we have the following very general theorem.
Theorem. Let a denote any number whatever, and
bet 1, 2, 3 ... y be a feries of numbers, each of which
exceeds that before it by unity ; the fum of n terms of a
feries formed by fubfituting the numbers a, a-f-i, a-f 2,
&c. to a-J-n—1 fuccejjively for v in the funBion
O+fl—1)0+«)0+*+ 0
~T{ («+«—1)04-«)”" 0 + «)
Hence it appears that the terms of the feries to be fum-
med are the halves of the differences of the terms of the
fpries
*'0 + 00 + 2) • • • 0+0
is equal to
0
/7(fl+l)0+2) . • . («+/>—!)
I
L (a+n^a+n+^^a+n^). .^-\.(a + n+p—\)
Corollary,
l» —
S E Pt [I
Senes. ^ CoroLlart. The fame feries continued ad infinitum
is equal to
p 2)••*(«+/>—0*
(14.) We fliall now give a few examples of the ap¬
plication of this theorem.
Example 1. Required the fura of n terms of the feries
1 - 1 1
+ ,&c.
2 ’ 3 ' 4 ' 5 3 ‘ 4 ’ 5 ’ 4 * 5 * 6 • 7
1 he terms of this feries are evidently produced by the
fuccefli^e fubditution of the numbers 2, 4, c, &c.
for v in the function
Ex. 2. Required the fum of the feries
1
}■
+
+ ,&c.
i-4-7 4-7*io 7-io-i31io'i3-x6
continued ad infinitum.
By a little attention it will apoear that its terms are
produced by the fubftitution of .lie numbers y, i-i-^
2-f, &c. fucceffively for v in the function
3^(3^+3)(3^+6)~ 27t)(^ + i)(y4-2) ’
In this cafe then a—\,p=2, therefore the fum is
1 1
1 1
2X 27 -fx 4
24
{15.) When the funftion from which the feries is
derived has not the very form required in the theorem,
it may be brought to that form by employing fuitable
transformations, as in the two following examples.
Ex. 3. It is propofed to find the fum of the feries
1 . 1 1 1
“ + ~ g -f 7- +>
I*4 2-5 3,() 4-7
continued ad infinitum.
This feries is evidently formed by the fubflitution of
the numbers 1, 2, 3, &c. fucceffively for v in the func-
tl0n vfv 4- 3)' exPre^10n» however, does not in
ils prefent form agree with the general formula, becaufe
the fadtors v-j-i, v-f-2 are wanting; therefore to tranf-
lorm it, we multiply its numerator and denominator by
(fo-f-l 2), and it becomes
^O-f-OOy-f-2)
^+i)C^+2)w+3)5
We next affiime its numerator
Vo^. XIX. Part I.
77 1 SEE
0+i)0+2)=A(«+2)(i,+3)+Bi>-j-3) + C,
and by multiplying get
^ + 3 ^ + 2 = + (5 A + B) + (6A+3 B-f-C> j
therefore, that v may be indeterminate, we mull make
A=i, 5A-fB=3, 6A4-3B-j-C=2,
from which equations we get A=ri, B=a cA— 2
C—2—6 A— 3 B = 2, fo that ^ .
0-f 2)Q+3)—20+3)4- 2
^-f-l)(^-f-2)(?; + 3);
therefore, comparing this expreffion with the general
formula, we have fl~2,/>—3, and the fum required
__x y ^ »
Ti.2 • 3 • 4'
^+3) i>0+0(fo+2)(*'-}-3)
__ I   2
  —- 
^O+OO+^O+s)
Thus it appears that the propofed feries is refolvable in¬
to three others, the general terms of which all agree
with the theorem. Now the fum of the infinite feries
whofe general terra is — ^ appears by the theorem
to be or 1, becaufe a=i, and the fum of the infinite
feries whofe general term is
— 2
 2
, . ,7—;—is in like
manner found to be — 4- -i- -- Zl3 j anc} lap]yj the
finite feries whofe general term is  —X  
v(v-}-i)(v-{-2) O-j-3)
. • 2 I 1 , r
13 7WT;— “ j tiiereiore, colledling thefe into one*
the fum of the propofed feries is 1—th^
r 2 1 9 iS’ '
anlwer.
Ex. 4. Required the fum of the infinite feries.
1 _2 . 3 , 4
2"3’4 * 3 ’ 4‘5 4'5'6 3• 6• 7
+, &c.
The terms of this feries are evidently formed by the.
fubfhtution of the numbers 2, 3, 4, fucceffively in the
fundtion
Now v—r~<u-j-2—3 5 therefore,
^O-fOO-h2) •yffo+i) 2)}
thus it appears that the propofed feries is reducible to
two others, one having its terms produced by the fub¬
flitution of 2, 3, &c. for v in the fundlion
and the other by a like fubflitution in the fundion
Now’ hy our theorem, the fum of
the firft of thefe is —, and that of the fecond is ——
- 2 2
Z 1
Series.
z
SEE.
[ 178 ]
SEE
Series.
I ^ •
. therefore the fum of the propcfe J feries is
2*3 4
1 £ _ £
2 ” 4 ~ 4'
From thefe examples it is fufficiently evident how the
theorem is to be applied in other cafes 5 and it appears
alfo that by means of it we can fum any feries whatever
whofe general term is of the form
will be greater than the other feries
1 1
B
■y(i -f-tj)
*)(I+*0O+ 0
&c.
-f-?
or admits of being reduced to that form.
(16.) It deferves to be remarked that the feries
L + L+l+i+L+, &c.
1 2 3 4 5
which is of a very fimple form, and in appearance of the
fame nature as thofe we have fummed, does not how¬
ever admit of being treated in the fame manner ; and
indeed, if it be continued ad infinitum, its fum is in¬
finite, that is, it exceeds any number which can be af-
figned. The truth of this affertion will be evident if
we can {hew that a certain definite number of its terms,
beginning with any propofed term^can ahvays be found,
the fum of which fhall exceed an unit or 1 ; for this
being the cafe, as we can go on continually in affigning
fuch fets of terms, we can conceive as many to be taken
as there are units in any propofed number however great 5
and therefore their fum, and much more the fum of all
the terms of the feries from its beginning to the end of
the laft fets of terms will exceed that number. Now
that this can always be done may be proved as follows :
Let the term of the feries from which we are to
1 + '
x
1+ -■
(I+7)
therefore, the fum of the feries
•• +
a a-\-i a-\-2 «-)-3 * a-\-n—1
will always be greater than this expreffion 5 but if we
fuppofe n fo great that the quantity ^ is equal
to, or exceeds a, which is evidently always poffible, then
the above exprefiion for the fum of the geometrical fe¬
ries will be equal to 1, or will exceed 1 ; therefore, the
fame number of terms of the feries — -{-
Cl I
 1 ^gtc. always exceed 1 ; now this
a+2^a + 3^’ _ ^
is the property of the feries we propofed to demonftrate.
reckon be —, then, if the thing be poflible, and if n be ^ ^en —(I ’ t^en a —°(I ’ Dut
the requifite number of terms, we muft have
this quantity is greater than af-n—1 the denominator
of the laft term of the feries
i,i 1 1
-J L 1 
a fl-j- 1 ' « 4-2
Now becaufe
*'• +
a-fn-
ci —1“ i d —!*- 2 a ^
a-\-n—1’
‘’(t+a) -‘' + 2+?
”(I+7) =',+3 + »+'?’
and in general,
a(I+a}
therefore, p being any whole number,
( 1 ^
^ 1 -f a-\-p, and confequently
the fum of which, we have proved, wall upon that hy-
pothefis exceed unity ; much more then will the fum
exceed unity if we fuppofe the feries continued until the
denominator of its laft term be equal to, or greater than
Hence, beginning with the term 4, it appears that
f+ 7 '
25=5
a+p *K)
hence it follows that the feries
1 \f> >'
T5+1T ‘ * T
T | I . . .
'6TT_r'3"T7
&c.
6h]6—262,
+
Although the fum of the feries we have been confider-
ing is infinite, yet it evidently increafes very flowly •,
indeed it is a l:mit to all fuch as have a finite fum j for
every
Series
f+'T"
Now this laft being evidently a geometrical feries, of
1
which the common ratio is .1, its fum is
SEE. [i
Series. every infinite feries, the terms of which decreafe fafter
than the reciprocals of an arithmetical progreflion, is al¬
ways finite.
(17.) We have already explained what is meant by a
recurring feries, (2.) we lhall now treat briefly, firft, of
their origin, next of the way in which they may be
fummed, and lallly, of the manner of determining the
general term of any particular leries.
The feries which is produced by the developement of
a rational algebraic fraflion has always the property
which conftitutes the charadfleriftic of the clafs called
Recurring, (2.) and on the other hand, any feries hav¬
ing that property being propofed, an algebraic fra&ion
may be found by the expanfion of which the feries ihall
be produced.
The fraction —1 fthh—. for example, by dividing the
1—x—x
numerator by the denominator is converted into the infi¬
nite feries.
1 -{- 3 #-{-4 7 ^3 -f-11 +18 ^ > &c.
which is of fuch a nature that if T, P, 1 ", denote any
three of its fucceeding terms, their relation to one ano¬
ther is expreffed by the equation
T"r=T**-|-T' *.
If we employ algebraic divifion to convert the frac¬
tion into a feries, the law of its terms will not appear
fo readily as if we ule the method of indeterminate co¬
efficients. By this method we aflume the fraction
= A-TB tt-f-C as+P *3 + E 4-&c.
and hence, multiplying by the denominator, and bring¬
ing all the terms to one fide, as explained in Algebra,
^ 261, we have
A + Bl -f-Cl +D7
— 1—A > x—B y P_C 5-^-f &c. “O,
-O —a 3 -b)
and hence,
A—irro, C—B—-A~o,
B—A 2 = 0, D—C—B—o,
&c.
From thefe equations it appears that the law of the fe¬
ries is fuch as we have affigned.
The equation expreffing the relation which fubfifts
among a certain number of fucceeding terms of a recur¬
ring feries, is called its fcale of Relation. The fame
name is alfo fometimes given to the equation exprefling
the connexion of the coefficients of the terms. Thus
the fcale of relation of the foregoing feries is either
T"=T*-|-T'*\
where T, T', and T" denote any three fucceeding terms
of the feries, or it is
R=p+a.
where P, Q and R denote their numeral coefficients.
(18.) We come next to Ihew how the fum of any pro¬
pofed number of terms of a recurring feries may be
found. Let the feries continued to n terms be
T(i)-j-T(»)-|-T(?) • • • -f-T(«-i)-}-T(«-ii4-T («),
where the charafters T(i), T(i), &c. denote the fuccef-
five terms, and the numbers (1), (2), &c, their order
79 ] s e It
or place ; and as whatever number of terms is contained
in the fcale, the manner of fumming the feries is the
fame, we ffiall in what follows, for the fake of brevity,
fuppofe that it confifts of three, in which cafe it may be
expreffed thus,
p T(K-i)-j-y T(«“i)-j-r T{"> —o,
where p, q, r denote certain given quantities.
The fcale of relation affords the following feries of
equations,
p T(ij + ^T(»)-f-r T(3)—o,
/> T;i)-j-y T(3)+ r T(4)—o,
p Tn)-j-^T(4;-j-r T;s)=z:o,
T(«—X)-f-y T(K—T(») 2=0.
Taking now the fum of thefe equations, we get
p (Tfij-f-TtD-J-To) • • • -f-T(«-x))'
Seiies,
-f-y(T(x)4-T(j)-f-T(4)• • • +T(«-x)) >
. 4-r(T(3)-j-T(4)-j-T(S) * * •-j-T(«) ) 3
:o.
But, putting s for the fum of n terms of the feries, this
equation may manifeftly be expreffed thus,
p (x—T(>») —T(«—1))'
+r is~
Plence, after redudfion, we find sz
•T(»)  T(n-i)) l
-T(i)—T(n>) i =0.
-T(i)—T(2i) 3
/>(T('i—1 )-f-T («)) -j-y (T(1)+ F («)) -|-r(T( i)-f-T(t))
p ff-y-j-r
From which it appears that in this cafe the fum de¬
pends only on the two firft and the two lait terms of
the feries.
Example. It is propofed to find from this formula
the fum of n terms of the feries
1-j-2x-f 3 v* 4 A’3-j-5 A’4-f &c.
its fcale of relation being
A* T(»-l) 2 X T(n-I) -f-T!«) —O.
Here p—x*, q——2 X, rrri, therefore, obferving that
the lait two terms of the feries muff be (//--—1) a’1"'^
and ax”-1, we have, after fubftiLuting and reducing,
1—(/?-}-1) a”-}-77 a”
I—2 X -j- X1
This formula will not apply in the cafe of a~i, be
caufe then the numerator and denominator are each —o :
but in fuch cafes as this we may find the value of the
fonftion which exprefles the fum by what is delivered
at § 90, Fluxions.
(19,) The procefs by which we have determined the
value of n terms of the feries T( 1 )-j- T(i;-f- Tn)-f- &c.
will alfo apply to the finding the rational frafHon from
which the feries may be deduced, which is alio the fura
of the feries continued ad infinitum. For rfi this cafe
the equation from which we have deduced the fum
being
/> (T(i;-{--T(1)+ffi(3)+ &c-)7
-j-y ( F1)-j- lo)-J- ! (4)-|- Sec.) >• = 0,
'•)3
4-r (TfJ74-T(4)-|-T(i;-I- Sec
Z 2
that
*
Series.
S E R [
that is,
ps-\-q (j—T(i))-f-r —T(i))=ro,
ivc have
For example, let it be required to find the fraftion,
which being developed produces the feries
i -f- lx-{-3‘V1 -}-4^3+j &c.
the fcale of relation of which is
X7, T (n-i) IX T(«-1) -J- T (») -}- o.
Here/—q-=--2x, r=i, T(D=i, T(i)=2X) there-
lore, lubftituting in the formula, we get
80 ]
I 2X-\-X* (i—x)*
/or the fraaion required, or for the fum of the feries
continued ad infinitum.
(20.) We come now to the laft branch of the theory
of recurring feries which we propofed to confider, name¬
ly, how to find in any cafe the general term.
We lhall begin with the molt fimple, and fuppofe the
fraaion to be -——, which being expounded into a fe¬
ries by divifion, is
a-\-apx-\-a fix x7, -\-ap% #3-j-, &c.
here it is immediately manifeft that the general term is
a pn 1 ~n~1
Next let us fuppofe the fraaion to be  
1 — ctx —
Let the two roots of the quadratic equation 1—a.x /3.v*
— 3 be ^ at — —, fo that 1—px — o, and t—qx
p q ^
—0 j therefore, 1—ax—,3x2~ (1—/^)(i—qx)f thus,
we have
a-j-frx
a-j-bx
1—ax—fix2 (i_/x)^i—qX)'
Let us affume this expreffion equal to
—+-2-
I—px 1—qx'
*
where P and £ denote quantities which are to be inde¬
pendent of x, then, reducing to a common denominator
we have ’
°+hx __ p-f-Q—(?P+/Q )x
{l—px)(l-~qx) (I—p x)(l—q x) ’
Hence, that x may remain indeterminate, we muft
make
P+Q=*, ??+/»Q——b,
and from thefe equations we get
p __ q— aq-\-b
~p-q'*.~ p~—q
£Jow, by the operation of divifion, we find
1 —px
Q ;
I —q X'
therefore, fince
S E R
= P+P/.v-f.P/*^-f, &c.
— &c.
a-\-bx __ P p
X —xx—3xz 1 — px ‘ 1 —qx'
a -{- bx
it fol¬
lows that the developemont of the fraaion - _
which proceeds according to the powers of x, is
(P + ^)P/>4-Q,'7) tf + CP/^-f-Otf*) x*
+cp^+q.?3)^34-, &c.
And here it is evident that the general term is fP*”-1
Let us take as a particular example the fraaion
iZ-.xZdTx^' which» when expanded into a feries, be¬
comes
1 -\-0 X-\-2 X7 -\-2 X* -{-6 X* IO Xs
-f" 2 2 ai® -j-q 2 frd -J— 86 .v® -j—, £kc.
Here, from the equation 1—x—2 we get .r—
and a;——x, fo that 1—2x and 1 -f-x are divilors of the
funaion 1—x—2 xzf that is, 1—x—2 at2 — (1-f-A;'';
(r—2x) ; hence/——i,q=2, and fince a~i,b~ 1 j
therefore P= |, Q — f, and the general term (P/*-1 -i-
Q_y" *) at"-1 becomes by fubftituting
where the fign + is to be taken when n is an odd
number ; but the iign — when n is even.
Sometimes the values of / and q will come out ima¬
ginary quantities 5 thefe, however, will be found always
to deftroy one another when fubftituted in the peneral
term.
Let us next fuppofe the fraaion which produces a re--
curring feries to be
a + b x-\-c x7
I a X /3 x2—y A3 *
T 1 1 1 , 1
Let x—x — —, x — ~ be the three roots of the
cubic equation 1—u.x—(&x2—yx3~of then the deno¬
minator of the fraaion will be the produa of the three
faaors
1—px, 1—qx, x—r X.
We muft now affume the fraaion equal to the expref¬
fion
— +-£-+-5--
l—px 1—qx 1—r x '
in which P, Q, R denote quantities which are indepen¬
dent of x.
The three terms of this expreffion are next to be re¬
duced to a common denominator and colleaed into one,
and the coefficients of the powers of x in the numerator
of the refult are to be put equal to the like powers of>
in the propofed fraaion, we ffiall then have
Series.
P +
Series.
' S E K [
P+Q^j-Rrrtf,
q r P4-/»r C^4-/)?R—f,
and by thefe equations the values of P, Q, R may be
found.
P O R
  — be now refolved into fe-
-r x
Let
I—px I—qx I-
ries by divifion 5 then, adding the like powers of .v in
each we have
(p+Q.+R)+(P/!,+Q.?+R rV-f-(P/>H~Q.'7*
-j-R &c.
for the feries which is the developement of the fraflion
ci "b x —c x*
I X X /3 X* y X 3
and here the general term is evidently
and in the very fame manner may the general term be
found in every cafe in which the denominator of the
fraftion admits of being refolved into unequal fa&ors.
(21.) Let us now fuppofe the fraction to have the
form the denominator being the produft of
two equal factors ; this fraftion cannot be decompofed
into other fraclions, the denominators of which are the
fimple factors of its denominator. ^Ve rnay, however,
transform it into two, which ihali have their numerators
conftant quantities by proceeding as follows : Aflume
the numerator P+O (1—/>*), then, that x
may remain indeterminate, we muft have P -J- O = r?
—/> Q=b, therefore
Q= — P=a+~.
P ^P
The aflumption of fl-f £ xrrP-f-Q (i_a gives us
therefore
a -\-b .v P Q
181 ] S E R
(22.) In general, whatever be the form of the frac¬
tion from which a recurring feries is derived, to deter¬
mine the general term we muft decompofe the fra&ion
into others which may be as fimple as poflible ; and pro¬
vided it be rational, and the higheft power of x in the
numerator at reaft one degree lefs than the higheft
power in the denominator, it may be always decompofed
into others having one or other of thefe two forms
P
(1—pxy (1—/>.?)*■*" 1 —p x'
Now,, putting the firft term of the latter fide of this
equation under the form P (r—^.v)-2, it is refolved
by the binomial theorem into the feries
P(I+2Px + 3Plxi'b4PZx3 + , &c.) j
the other fraction ^
1 —px
being expanded into a feries
P+Q/'*+Q/>5*2+, &c.
J herefore, the complete developement of —^ x is
(1—p x)*
p+&+(2 P+Q)/>*-K3 P-f£)/>V+, &c.
and here the general term is manifeftly
(n P-\-QJpr'~Ix”-1, or, fubftituting for P and Q their
values, ^
npa-p(n—i)b~^pn-’-xn~'i.
1—p x’ (i—q xY'
y
in which expreffions P, £), p, and q, denote quantities
independent of x. Each partial fraction gives a recur¬
ring feries, the general term of which will be fufficient-
ly obvious and as the feries belonging to the original
fraftion, is the fum of thefe feries, fo alfo its general
term will be the fum of all their general terms.
We have now treated of fome of the more general
methods of fumming feries which admit of being ex¬
plained by the common principles of algebra 5 but the
fubjett is of great extent, and to treat of it fo as to give
a tolerable notion of its various branches, would require
more room than could with propriety be fpared on fych
a work as ours.
(23). The fluxionaty calculus affords a method, al-
moft the only general one we poffefs, of fumming feries.
The general principles upon which it is applied may
be ftated briefly as folkws. Since the fluent of any
fluxion containing one variable quantity may always be
expreffed by a feries, on the contrary every feries may
be regarded as the expreffion of a fluent: when any
feries then is propofed, we muft endeavour to find the
fluxional expreflion of which that feries is the fluent;
and as w'e can always find the fluent of a fluxion, at
leaft by approximation, within given limits j we may
thence determine, if not the exaft, at leaft the approxi¬
mate value of any infinite feries. We lhall now fhew how
this principle may be applied in fome particular cafes.
PROEr.EM I. It is propofed to find the fum of n terms
of the feries
X-f- 'lx1 -f-3#3 -j-4*4 ‘ • +nx”.
Let the fum be denoted by s. Then, multiplying all
the terms by — we have
J JC • • • • 0
~ — x-\-2xx-)r'3)x'ix-\-i\x^x • • - xn~* x
Let the fluent of both fides be now taken, and the re-
fult is
..
/j' %
Now the feries on the right-hand fide of this equa¬
tion is a geometrical progreflion, the fum of which is
ftmm^mftft "t" ^
known to be 1—  , (Algebra, § 106). Therefore^
1—x
fs X __ X A«+2
'J X * I X ’
Series,
a»el
S E R
and, taking the fluxions,
j- x x— (« -f-1) v" 4’n xn^lx
x (l—ar)*
Hence we find
i
_ x—-\-nxn^z
S~ (i—a;)2
[ JB2 ]
S E R
Series
V -f
V >
l — X
and taking the fluents,
j- r= ^ — log. (i—.t) -f-c
— loR- ( 1 —x)
x '
log, (I—A?) + C.
To determine the conftant quantity c, let us take
This refult agrees with that formerly found (17.) of xz=o, then, in this cafe all the terms of the feries va-
this articled
niih fo that j=o, aifo log. rrrlog. 1 — o j and
Problem II. It is propofed to fum the infinite feries ^ince general
—, &c.^rr—x —
log. (1—at)
log. ( X — A?)
X / x*
x\ 2
AT3
T
I I I I I 0
I f-   j L, &C.
3 5 7 9 ii
We may confider this feries as a particular cafe of the
more general feries,
a._iL+^_£.4. &c
3 + 5 7 ' ’
namely, that in which x~I. Putting therefore the
fum —and taking the fluxions, we have
—x^-j-v4—*6-f-, &c.).
Now the feries in the parenthefis is obvioufly the de-
—, &c. when « —o, then
1 : therefore o = —1 -\-c, and c = i )
hence it appears that
 iog- (1—
.log.(x—.v) + l
(1—x) log. (1—x)
+ 11
velopement of the rational fraction
1 -j- x1
therefore,
Example, Let x~\, then our formula gives
11 11
I * 2 * 2
2 • 3 * 2J 3 • 4 * 23 ‘ 4 • 5 ’ 24
4-, &C,
s — —- , and taking the fluent Jrrarc (tan. — .v) — 1 — Nap. log. 2~.3o68528.
radius being unity. (Fluxions § 60.) Now
when x—o, all the terms of the feries vanifli, fb that in
this cale j-~o ; and as when x—o, arc. (tan. o j
therefore 6’, the conftant quantity added to complete the
fluent is o, and we have Amply s — arc. (tan. —x), and
when *•—1, then j-—-1- a quadrant “.7853982.
Problem IV. Let the feries to be fummed be
OT-j-2
m ttz-d-i ,
I ~L_ — x 4 X
1 n ^«4-i
H 4- 2
xi 4-, &C.
Putting s for this fcries let all its terms be multiplied
by xn—i fo that the exponent of X <n each may be iden-
Problem III. Required the fum of the infinite feries tical with its denominater, the refull is
. m m-\-l ,« , m4-2 .. „
xr-1=xn-1 4— xn4 a?”+*4--^ .r»tJ4-, &c,
^«4-i “«4-2
X X* X* , X* n
 j 4—■—h 1-? &-c‘
!-2 2-3 1 3-4 4-5n
^Putting s for the fum, and taking the fluxions, we get
j =—( -4- -4. 1 [-, &c.)
A2 \ 2 r 3 r 4 1 5 ^ J
and hence taking the fluxions
4-(«—\)sx xn~2 — (n—i)aa'’!-'1 -\-mxxr'
4- ( m +1) x xn-\-{?}i-ir2)xxn*1&c.
Now the feries in the parenthefis is evidently equal to Let both fides of this equation be now multiplied by
—x— Nap. log. (1—a), (fee Logarithms, page 76. becomes
column 1.) j therefore
— — f — — x Nap. log. (1—a).
sxm~l -\-{n—i^s x —i)x xm 2mxxm *
4-(7/24-1) a xm 4* (tw4“ 2)x xm^1 4-, &c.
Putting now the Angle character p for the fluxional ex-
To find the fluent, let us put v for the fundlicn preffion which forms the firft member of this equation
-log. (1—x), then, taking its fluxion xve have
and - 4X log’(I_AI) = “ +
therefore, fubftituting, we get;
x x
a(i—-a) xj
we get by taking the fluents of both fides,
/-
ttm-*4-tf'”4_x"!+I4-*m+i4-, &c.
— 1 a™-1 4-x'"(T 4'A’4-a’24-a34-, &c),
m—1
but the feries in the parenthefis is the devedopement of
—-—, therefore
v 4-
n—!
p-  V
- taking
S E R
t 183 ]
SEE
Series.
taking now the fluxions, and fubflituting inftead off> the
expreflion it was put to reprefent, we get
.„wi— 2
sxm-1 -f- (« — I ).r a? x'
tn x xv
:(« —
■x-y
Ai
i—x r (i-
and this, after redu£lion, becomes
• . , n—1 • (n — i)a? tnx
s _| sx = i   4  
x x i—x (1—xy
Ihisfluxional equation being of the firft degree, and
firft order, its primitive equation may be found (from
the general formula given in Fluxions, § 182.) to be
1 , a * „ ■> . mxx"-x , xxn 1
s~-—— X/ i (n—i)xxy'-z-\ h fr ;
1 ^ Lv ' ^ i—x (i~x)2S’
and this again, by remarking t\\ztj\n—l^xxn~z~xn~'lt
and that
J'mxxr'~’i  mx* , mxxn
1—x «(i—ac) J »(i—a;)1’
may be reduced to
r-— T ^j_ mx n — m p xn x
»(i—at) nxn~xJ (1—x'y'
The remaining fluent P-—*-.
t/ ( 1 x }
Fluxions, and it mult be fo taken, that after being
multiplied by —it fhall vanilk when x~o \ for
then this hypothefis will make the whole funfKon which
exprefles the value of r vanith, except its firft term 1,
as it ought to do.
Example. Let us fuppofe zz—2, then,
value of one or more terms by means of others which
are given, and which may be either at equal or unequal
intervals from one another, the places of the given
terms as well as of thofe fought being fuppofed known.
It is eafy to fee that this problem may be applied to
the conftruftion of logarithmic tables ; for we may re¬
gard the logarithms of the natural numbers 1, 2, 3, 4,
&c. ad infinitum as the terms of a particular feries of
which the numbers themfelves are then the indices. Ha-
ving given the logarithms of fome numbers we may by
interpolating deduce from them the logarithms of
others.
Again, in aftronomy we may confider the numbers
which exprefs the fucceffive obferved pofitions of a ce-
leftial body as the terms of a feries, their indices being
the intervals of time between the obfervations, and fome
aflumed epoch, and the problem we are confidering
will enable us to determine the pofition at any inftant
different from the times of aftual obfervation, provided
the intervals between the obfervations be fmall, and the
inftant for which the pofition is fought not very remote
from thofe at which the obfervations were made.
(25.) With a view to illuftrate the nature of the pro¬
blem to be refolved, let us confider fome particular cafe,
as for example the arithmetical feries
<7, a-\-d, a -f- id, a-\-^d, a-\-t[d, &c.
Let t and t’ be two given terms of the feries, which
are at any diftance from one another, and let n and n1
be their indices, or numbers which denote their places in
may be found by J 109. the feries. Alfo let ij be any term whatever and x its
index. Then by the nature of an arithmetical feries,
p Xz X
J (I—l
(1—xy
t-V
iZ^+2 los- C1—
tz=a-j-(n—i)d, <7-J-(z2'—i)d,
t/=za-l-(x—i)d,
Now, as there are here three equations, each involving
the quantities a and d, we^may eliminate both thefe
quantities by the common rules, (Algebra, Seff. VII.)
and this being done, rve get
( x—n') () — (//—tz) (y—/') 5
and hence we find this expreftion,
and
2X
n r xz x __(2—m)x
J (1 — x)z ~ i( 1—,
r-
log. (l—x),
the fluent being here taken as direfted. In this cafe
then, after collefting the terms,* we get j-, or
1 +
m-l-i , m-l-2
x -| + j &c.
3
(2—m)
log. ([—xy
( 24.) There is a branch of the do&rine of feries which
is of confiderable importance in pure mathematics as
well as in many phyfical inquiries, and in the fcience
of aftronomy ; it is called the Interpolation of feries.
Fo interpolate a feries is to interpofe among its terms
others which fhall be fubjedl; to the fame law, or which
fhall be formed in the fame manner as the original terms
of the feries; or in other words, it is to find the
which is a general formula for interpolating any arith¬
metical feries, and it is obfervable, that it is entirely in¬
dependent both of the firft term and common difference.
Example. The yth term of an arithmetical feries is
15, and the 12th term is 25 : It is required to find the
10th term.
Here «=7, n'—\2, Amo ;
t—15, t'zz 25, y is fought.
Therefore by the formula,
2 3
y=-X 15+JX 25=21, the anfwer.
(26.) The mode of inveftigation by which we have
found a formula for the interpolation of an arithmetical
feries will apply alfo to others, if the law according to
which the terms are formed be known ; in general,
however, the law of a feries to be interpolated is either
not
Series.
^trte-.
Plate
ccCclxxvi:
S E It t i
not known, or it is not taken into account, and we
only confider the abfolute magnitudes of certain terms,
and the numbers cxpreffing their places in the feries.
To refolve the problem generally with thefe data, it is
ufual to proceed as follows: Let a llraight line, AB,
and a point A in it, be affumed as given in pofition,
and let there be taken the fegments AD, AD', AD",
AD"', &c. proportional to the numbers denoting tl e
places of the terms of a feries reckoned from any term
aflfumed as a fixed origin, and at the points D, D', D"
let there be ere£ted perpendiculars proportional to the
terms themfelves. Let us now fuppofe a curve to pafs
through C, C', C", C'", &c. then, if it be fo chofen
that its curvature may vary gradually in its progrefs
from point to point, without any very abrupt changes
of inflexion, and moreover, if the terms (wLich we may
fuppofe to be either at equal or unequal didances) are
pretty near to one another, it is eafy to conceive, that
if AP be taken equal to the number exprefling the
place of a term between C"D", C^D'" any two others,
the term itfelf will, if not exaftly, at lead be nearly ex-
prerfed by P£), the ordinate to the curve.
As an infinite variety of curves may be found that
fhall pafs through the fame given points j in this refpeft
the problem is unlimited •, it is, however, convenient to
affiime fuch as are fimple and tra&able. The parabolic
clafs poffefs thefe properties, and accordingly they are
commonly employed.
Let us then exprefs the ordinates CD, C'D', C"D",
C'"D"', &c. which are the given terms of the feries by
/, /', t", t"\ &c.
and the abfciflae AD, AD', AD", AD'", or the numbers
denoting the order of the terms by
n, n", &c.
Put y for PQ, a term to be interpolated, and x for
AP its place. Then, confidering x and y as indefinite
co-ordinates, a parabolic curve that ihall pafs through
the points C, C', C", C'", &c. will have for its equa¬
tion
y—-j-> &c.
the number of terms on the right-hand fide being fup-
pofed equal to that of the given points, and A, B, C,
&c. being put to denote conftant quantities. To de¬
termine thefe we mud confider that when x~ti, then
y—t, and that when xzzri, then y—t' and fo on, there¬
fore, fubdituting the fucceflive correfponding values of
x and y we get
t —A-f-B/z -j-Cn* -j-D«? -f-, &c.
t' =A-j-B«' -j-Cn'* -}-D/iM -f-, &c.
t"=A + Br>" +C«"2 +D«"5 -f, &c.
^"=A-f B«'" -{-Cw'^-fDw"'3 +, &c.
&.C. &c.
this feries of equations mud be continued until their
number be the fame as that of the coefficient, A, B, C,
D, &c. If w’e nowT confider t, t'. t", &c. and a,
&c. as known, and A, B. C, &c. as unknown quan¬
tities, we may determine thefe lad by eliminating them
one after another from the above equations, as is taught
in Algebra, Se£L XVII. And the values of A, B,
C, &c. being thus determined and fubdituted in the ge¬
neral equation, we fhall have a general expreffion for y
in terms of x the number denoting its place and known
a
84 ] S E R
quantities 5 and this is in fubdance the folution original- Series,
ly given of the problem by Sir Ifaac Newton, who pro- 11 ' v'-”
pofed it in the third book of his Principia wdih a view
to its application in adronomy. *
A celebrated foreign mathematician (Lagrange) has,
in the Gainers de l Pcole Normale, given a different
form to the expreflicn fur //. He has ohferved that
fince, when x becomes w. n, n" n'", &c. fucceflively,
then 7/ becomes t, t', t", t'", &c. It follows that the es-
preffion for y mull have this form.
yrr^Z-f^/'-f + , &c.
where the quantities p, y, &c. mud be fuch func¬
tions of#, that if we put x—ri, then u~i and/3—o,
y—o, &c. and if we put x—n', then x—O, P—i',
y—o, &c. and again, if we make x,—ri,f, then x~o}
/3—o, y~ I, &c. and fo on. Hence it is eafy to con¬
clude that the values of *, p, y, &c. mud have the
form
(x—7i')(«;—n") (x—7/") ^
* (7/—77')(77—77")(77—s'") ’ ^ C*
(# 77) (# 7?")(# 72"')
** (77' 77) (7l' 77")(tj' 77"')’ ^ ^
. — (*—«) (x—d) (x—n'")
y (72" 77)(«" Tl)(Tl" 77"')’
5 _ (#—7?) (#—77') (#—72"'()
6 («"'——77') (77'"—77")'
4 &c.
and here the number of faflors in the numerator and de¬
nominator mud be each equal to the number of given
points in the curve. This formula would be found to
be identical with that which may be obtained by the
method indicated in lad article, if we were to take the
a dual produff of the faffors and arrange the whole ex¬
preffion according to powers of x. It poffeffes however ,
one advantage over the other, viz. that of admitting of
the application of logarithms.
We diall now drew the application of this formula.
Ex. J Having given the logarithms of IOI, 102,
104, and 105, it is required to find the logarithm of
103.
In this cafe we may reckon the terms of the feries
forward from the fird given term, viz. log. 101, fo that
we have
t —log. toi —2.oc>432T4, 77 =ro,
/'=r log. 102=2.0086002, n'z=i,
y =log. 103= term fought, x—2,
t"= log. 104=^.0170333, »"=3>
/'"=log. i05=:2.02ii893, 77"'=4.
Subdituting nowT in the general formpla wre get
IX—IX—3 I 2 X 1 X 2
I X—3 X—4
2X—T X—2
TX—2X—3
3 =
3 X 2 X —I
2_x 1 ><-—I
4x3x1
/ 21' 2t" t"'
Therefore y= — -g-+ — +   
= 2.0128372 the anfwer.
3
1
'6’
Ek;
s E R [ 185 ] S E R
Series, 2. Given a comet's diftance from the fun on the
Seringapa- following days at 12 at night, to find its diftance De-
. ta”1* , cember 20th.
December 12. diftance 301, Dec. 24. diftance 715,
21. 620, 26. 772.
Here we lhall eftimate the places of the terms from
the time of the firft pofition, viz. December 12. There¬
fore
t = 301, « = o,
T/ is fought, AT = 8,
t' ~ 620, n' rz 9,
t" — 715, n" — 12,
t"'— 772, n,n zz 14.
In this cafe the general formula gives us
— —— A
45’y 3’ 35*
therefore
# , 64^
V — 7—f* 
63^ 45
2H' , 8/"'
T+35-’
= 586.3 the anfwer.
We fhall conclude this article with a brief enumera¬
tion of the beft works on the fubjedt which we have
been treating of.
Ars ConjeBandi, (Jac. Bernoulli). Methodus Dif¬
ferentia Us, (Newton). Methodus Incrementorum, (Tay¬
lor). Methodus Differentia Us, five TraBatus de Sum-
mat ione ct Interpolatione Serierum, (Stirling). Injlitu-
tiones Calcul. Dff. (Euler). Emerfon's Method of In¬
crements. The differential method, (fame author). Mif-
cellanea Analytica (De Moivre). The various writings
of Landen and Simpfon. Theone des FonBions Analy-
tiques, (Lagrange). Du Calcul des Derivation, (Arbo-
gart). Traite des differences et des Series, (a fequel
to Lacroix’s work on the Calcul Differential, &c.).
Dr Hutton’s Mathematical and Philofophical Tradts.
An Effay on the Theory of the various orders of Lo¬
garithmic Tranfcendents, with an Inquiry into their
applications to the Integral Calculus, and the Summa¬
tion of Series, by W. Spence, &c. &c.
SERING APAT AAl, the capital of Myfore, formerly
the dominions of Tippoo Sultan, is fituated in an ifiand of
the Cavery river, about 290 or 300 miles from Ma¬
dras, and in N. Lat. 12° 32' and E. Long. 96° 47',
about four miles in length, by one and a half in breadth,
acrofs the middle, where it is likewife highefl, whence
it gradually falls and narrows towards the extremities.
The weft end of the ifland, on which there is a fort of
confiderable ftrength, Hopes more, efpecially towards
the north •, and the ground riling on the oppofite fide
of the river commands a diftindt view of every part of
the fort. The fort and outworks occupy about a mile
of the weft end of the ifland, and are diftinguilhed by
magnificent buildings, and ancient Hindoo pagodas,
contrafted with the more lofty and fulendid monuments
lately raifed in honour of the Mahometan faith. The
great garden, called the haul Bang, covers about as
much of the eaft end of the illand as the fort and out¬
works do of the weft ; and the wdiole intermediate fpace,
except a fmall inclofure on the north bank near the fort,
Vol. XIX. Part I.
was, before the laft war, filled with houfes, and formed Seringapa*'
an extenfive fuburb, of which the greateft part was de- tam.
ftroyed by Tippoo to make room for batteries to de-^cl‘n^1>i>m',
fend the ifland when attacked by the combined forces y*““
of Earl Cornwallis and the Mahratta chiefs in Februa-
ry 1792. Ihis fuburb, or town of modern ftrudlure,
is about half a mile fquare, divided into regular crofs
ftreets, all wide, and lhaded on each fide by trees. It
is furrounded by a ftrong mud wall, contains many good
houfes, and feems to have been preferved by the Sultan
for the accommodation of merchants, and for the con¬
venience of troops ftationed on that part of the ifland
for its defence. A little to the eaftward of the town
is the entrance to the great garden, which was laid out
in regular lhady walks of large cyprefs trees, and
abounding with fruit-trees, flowers, and vegetables of
every defcription. It poffeffed all the beauty and ele¬
gance of a country retirement, and was dignified by the
maufoleum of Hyder, and a fuperb new palace built by
his fon. This noble garden was devoted to deftruffion^
and the trees which had (haded their proud raafter, and
contributed to his pleafures, were formed into the means
of prote£ling his enemies in fubverting his empire. “ Be¬
fore that event, fo glorious to the arms of England, this
infulated metropolis (fays Major Dirom) muft have
been the richeft, moft convenient, and beautiful fpot
poffeffed in the prefent age by any native prince in In¬
dia } but when the allies left it, the Sultan’s fort and
city only remained in repair amidft all the wrecks of his
former grandeur, the ifland prefenting nothing but the
appearance of wretched barrennefs. Tippoo is a man
of talents, enterprife, and great wealth ; but, in the opi¬
nion of our author, the remaining years of his ill-fated
life will be unequal to renew the beauties of his ter-
reftrial paradife.” This prediftion was more than veri¬
fied in the fate of Tippoo j for he loft his life in brave¬
ly defending his capital, which was taken by affault
in 1799 by the Britifli troops under General Baird. See
India, N° 183.
SERINGHAM, an ifland of Indoftan, formed about
fix miles north-weft of Trinchinopoly by the river Ca¬
very, which divides itfelf into two branches : that to
the northward takes the name of Coleroon, but the
fouthern branch preferves its old name the Cavery.
Each of thefe rivers, after a courfe of about 90 miles,
empty themfelves into the fea ; the Coleroon at Devi-
cottah, and the Cavery near Tranquebar, at about 20
miles diftance from one another. In this ifland, facing
I rinchinopoly, ftood a famous pagoda furrounded by
feven fquare walls of ftone, 25 feet high and four feet
thick. The fpace between the outward and fecond
walls meafured 31 o feet, and fo proportionably of the
reft. Each inclolure had four large gates, with a high
tower •, which were placed, one in the middle of each
fide of the inclofure, and oppofite to the four cardinal
points. The outward wall was about four miles in cir¬
cumference, and its gateway to the fouth was ornament¬
ed with pillars, fome of which were (ingle ftones 33 feet
in length and five in diameter ; while thofe that formed
the roof were ftill larger ; and in the inmoft inclofure
were the chapels.—About half a mile to the eaft; was
another large pagoda called Jumbihijlna, which had but
one inclofure.
The pagoda of Seringham xvas held in great venera¬
tion, from a belief that it contained the identical image
A a of
S E R
Serin t ham of the god Wiftnou worfhipped by Brama ; and pilgrims
II came here from all parts of India with offerings of mo-
i SelPe''ls- j-Q plocul:e abfolution. A large part of the reve¬
nue of the iiland was allotted for the maintenance of
the Bramins who inhabited the pagoda; and thefe, with
their families, formerly amounted to no fewer than
40,020 perions, ail maintained by the fuperffitious li¬
berality of the adjacent country.
SERIOLA, a genus of plants belonging to the clafs
fyngenefia, and in the natural fyffem ranged under
the 49i.h order, Compojitce. See Botany Index.
SE1UPHIUM, a genus of plants belonging to the
clafs fyngenefia. See Botany Index.
SERIPHUS, in Ancient Geography, one of the Cy¬
clades or iffands in the /Egean fea, called Saxurn Seri-
phium by Tacitus, as it all a rock ; one of the ulual
places of banilhment among the Romans. The people,
Seriphii ; who, together witn the Siphnii, joined Greece
againft Xerxes, were almoft the only illanders who re-
fufed to give him earth and water in token of fubmif-
fion, (Herodotus). Seriphia Kana, a proverbial faying
concerning a perfon who can neither ting nor fay ; frogs
in this ifland being laid to be dumb, (Pliny).
SERMON, a difeourfe delivered in public, for the
purpofe of religious inffrudlion and improvement.
Funeral SERMON. See FUNERAL Orations.
SERON OF almonds, is the quantity of two hun¬
dred weight; of anile feed, it is from three to four hun¬
dred 5 ot Caffile foap, from two hundred and a half to
three hundred and three quarters.
SEROSITY, in Medicine, the watery part of the
blood.
SERPENS, in AJlroTiGmy, a conffellation in the
northern hemifphere, called more particularly Serpens
Ophiuchi. The liars in the conftellation Serpens, in
Ptolemy’s catalogue, are 185 in Tycho’s, 13 } in He-
velius’s, 22 5 and in the Britannic catalogue, 64.
SERPENS Biceps, or Double-headed Snake ; a monffer
of the ferpent kind, of which fome individuals are de-
feribed by naturalifts.
Serfentes, Serpents, in the Linnaean fyftem of zoo¬
logy, an order of animals belonging to the clafs of atn-
phibia. See Ohiology.
The ferpent has been always conffdered the enemy
of man ; and it has hitherto continued to terrify and
annoy him, notwithftanding all the arts which have
been pradlifed to deftroy it. Formidable in itfelf, it
deters the invader from the purfuit $ and from its fi¬
gure, capable of finding flicker in a little fpace, it is
not eafily difeovered by thofe who would venture to
encounter it. Thus poffeffed at once of potent arms,
and inacceflible or fecure retreats, it baffles all the
arts of man, though ever fo earneftly bent upon its
deftrudlion. For this reafon, there is fcarcely a country
in the world that does not Hill give birth to this poi-
fbnous brood, that feems formed to quell human pride,
and reprefs the boafls of fecurity. Mankind have
driven the lion, the tiger, and the wolf, from their
vicinity j but the fnake and the viper flill defy their
power.
Their numbers, however, are thinned by human af-
fiduity 5 and it is pofiible fome of the kinds are wholly
deftroyed. In none of the countries of Europe are they
fufficiently numerous to be truly terrible. The various
malignity that has been aferibed to European ferpents
S E R
of old is now utterly unknown ; there are not above Serf
three or four kinds that are dangerous, and their poi-“*"v
fon operates in all in the fame manner. The drowfy
death, the ftarting of the blood from every pore, the
infatlable and burning thirft, the melting down the
folid mafs of the whole form into one heap of putrefac¬
tion, faid to be occaffoned by the bites of African ler-
pents, are horrors with which we are entirely unac¬
quainted, and are perhaps only the creatures of fancy.
But though we have thus reduced thefe dangers, ha¬
ving been incapable of wholly removing them, in other
parts of the world they itill rage with ail their ancient
malignity. In the warm countries that lie within the
tropics, as well as in the cold regions of the north,
where the inhabitants are few, the ferpents propagate
in equal proportion. But of all countries thole re¬
gions have them in the greateft abundance where the
fields are unpeopled and lertile, and where the climate
fupplies warmth and humidity. All along the fwampy
banks of the river Niger or Oroonoko, where the kin
is hot, the forefts thick, and the men but few, the fer¬
pents cling among the branches of the trees in infinite
numbers, and carry on an unceafing war againft all
other animals in their vicinity. Travellers have allured
us, that they have often feen large fnakes twining
round the trunk of a tall tree, encompaffing it like a
wreath, and thus rifing and defeending at pleafure.—
We are not, therefore, to rejedf as wholly fabulous the
accounts left us by the ancients of the terrible devafta-
tions committed by a fingle ferpent. It is probable, in
early times, wFen the arts were little known, and man¬
kind were but thinly fcattered over the earth, that fer¬
pents, continuing undifturbed pofl'efibrs of the foreft,
grew to an amazing magnitude } and every other tribe
of animals fell before them. It then might have hap¬
pened, that ferpents reigned the tyrants of a diftridl
for centuries together. To animals of this kind, grown
by time and rapacity to 100 or 150 feet in length, the
lion, the tiger, and even the elephant itfelf, were bui
feeble opponents. That horrible feetor, which even the
commoneft and the moft harmlefs fnakes are ftill found
to diffufe, might, in thefe larger ones, become too
powerful for any living being to withftand •, and while
they preyed without diftinftion, they might thus alfo
have poifoned the atmofphere around them. In this
manner, having for ages lived in the hidden and un¬
peopled foreft, and finding, as their appetites were more
powerful, the quantity of their prey decreafing, it is
poffible they might venture boldly from their retreats
into the more cultivated parts of the country, and carry
confternation among mankind, as they had before de-
folation among the lower ranks of nature. We have
many hiftories of antiquity, prefen ting us fuch a pic¬
ture, and exhibiting a whole nation finking under the
ravages of a fingle lerpent. At that time man had not
learned the art of uniting the efforts of many to effeft
one great purpofe. Oppofing multitudes only added
new vidrims to the general calamity, and increafed mu¬
tual embarraffment and terror. The animal wTas there¬
fore to be fingly eppofed by him who had the greateft
ftrength, the beft armour, and the meft undaunted cou¬
rage. In fuck an encounter, hundreds muft have fal¬
len ; till one, more lucky than the reft, by a fortunate
blow, o.r by taking the monfter in its torpid interval,
and furcharged with fpoil, might kill, and thus rid his
country
[ <86 ]
S E R
Serpens, country of tlie deftroyer. Such was the original oc-
Serpent. CUpation of heroes \ and thofe who firft obtained that
^ name, from their deftroying the ravagers of the earth,
gained it much more defervedly than their fucceffors,
who acquired their reputation only for their fldll in de-
ftroying each other. But as we defcend into more en¬
lightened antiquity, we find thefe animals lefs formi¬
dable, as being attacked in a more fuccefsful manner.
We are told, that while Regulus led his army along the
banks of the river Bagrada in Africa, an enormous fer-
pent difputed his paffage over. We are affured by Pliny,
that it was 120 feet long, and that it had deftroyed many
of the army. At laft, however, the battering engines
were brought out againft it 5 and thefe affailing it at a
diilance, it was foon deftroyed. Its fpoils were car¬
ried to Rome, and the general was decreed an ovation
for his fuccefs. There are, perhaps, few fafts better
afcertained in hittory than this: an ovation was a re¬
markable honour 5 and was given only for fome fignal
explait that did not deferve a triumph : no hiftorian
would offer to invent that part of the dory at lead,
without being fubjefl to the mod diameful deteddion.
The dcin was kept for feveral years after in the Capi¬
tol ; and Pliny fays he faw it there. At prefent, in¬
deed, fuch ravages from ferpents are fcarcely feen in any
part of the world •, not but that, in Africa and Ame¬
rica, fome of them are powerful enough to brave the
aflaults of men to this day.
—Ncqueunt, explcri cor da tuendo
Ternbi/es oculos, vultum villofaque fetis
PcEiora.— Virgil.
We have given a place to the preceding remarks,
not fo much for their accuracy as to diow what were
formerly the fentiments of mankind concerning this tribe
of animals.
SERPENT, a mufical indrument, ferving as a bafs
to the cornet, or /mail Jhawm, to ludain a chorus of
fingers in a large edifice. It has its name ferpent from
its figure, as confiding of feveral folds or wreaths, which
ferve to reduce its length, which would otherwife be fix
or feven feet.
It is ufually covered with leather, and confifls of
three parts, a mouth-piece, a neck, and a tail. It has
fix holes, by means whereof it takes in the compafs of
two oflaves.
Merfennus, who has particularly defcribed this in¬
drument, mentions fome peculiar properties of it,
e. gr. that the found of it is drong enough to drown
20 robud voices, being animated merely by the breath
of a boy, and yet the found of it may be attempered
to the foftnefs of the fweeted voice. Another pecu¬
liarity of this indrument is, that great as the didance
between the third and fourth hole appears, yet whe¬
ther the third hole be open or diut, the difference is but
a tone.
Serpent, in Mythology, wras a very common fymbcl
of the fun, and he is reprefented biting his tail, and
with his body formed into a circle, in order to indicate
the ordinary courfe of this luminary, and under this
form it was an emblem of time and eternity. The fer¬
pent was alfo the fymbol of medicine, and of the gods
which prefided over it, as of Apollo and /Efculapius :
and this animal was the object of very ancient and gene¬
ral worfiiip, under various appellations and charaders.
S E Pt
In mod ®f the ancient rites we'find fome allufion to Serpent,
the feipent, under the feveral titles of Ob, Ops, Py- *
thon, &c. This idolatry is alluded to by Moles, (Lev.
xx. 27.). The woman at Endor who had a familiar fpi-
rit is called Oub, or Ob, and it is interpreted Pythonif-
fa. The place where die redded, fays the learned Mr
Bryant, feems to have been named from tbe wordiip
then indituted ; for Endor is compounded of En-ador,
and fignifies fotix Pythonis, “ the fountain of light, the
oracle of the god Ador, which oracle was probably
founded by the Canaanhes, and had never been totally
fuppreffed. His pillar was alfo called Abbadir, or slb-
adir, compounded of ab and adir, and meaning the
ferpent deity Addir, the fame as Adorus.
In the orgies of Bacchus, the perfons who partook
of the ceremony ufed to carry ferpents in their hand»j
and with horrid fereams call upon Eva ! Eva ! Eva,
being, according to the writer juft mentioned, the fame
as epha, or opha, which the Greeks rendered ophis,
and by it denoted a ferpent. Thefe ceremonies and
this fymbolic w'orihip began among the Magi, who were
the fons of Chus} and by them they wrere propagated
in various parts. Wherever tbe Amonians founded any
places of worfiiip, and introduced their rites, there was
generally fome dory of a ferpent. There was a legend
about a ferpent at Colchis, at Thebes, and at Delphi •,
and likewife in other places. The Greeks called A-
pollo himfelf Python, which is the fame as Opis, Oupis,
and Oub.
In Egypt there was a ferpent named Thermuthis,
which was looked upon as very facred ; and the natives
are faid to have made ufe of it as a royal tiara, with
which they ornamented the datues of Ifis. The kings
of Egypt wore high bonnets, terminating in a round
ball, and furrounded with figures of afps ; and the
prieds likewife had the reprefentation of ferpents upon
their bonnets.
Abadon, or Abaddon, mentioned in the Revelations
xx. 2. is fuppofed by Mr Bryant to have been the name
of the Ophite god, with whofe worfiiip the world had
been fo long infedled. This wordiip began among the
people of Chaldea, who built the city of Ophis upon
the Tigris, and were greatly addicted to divination, and
to the wordiip of the ferpent. From Chaldea the wor¬
diip paffed into Egypt, where the ferpent deity was
called Canoph, Can-epb, and C’neph. It had alfo the
name of Ob or Oub, and was the fame as the Bafilifcus
or royal ferpent, the fame as the Thermuthis, and made
ufe of by way of ornament to the ftatues of their gods.
The chief deity of Egypt is faid to have been Vulcan,
who was ftyled Opas. He was the fame as Ofiris, the
Sun, and hence was often called Ob-el, or Pytho-fol ,
and there were pillars facred to him, with curious hie-
roglyphical inferiptions bearing the fame name *, whence
among the Greeks, who copied from the Egyptians,
every thing gradually tapering to a point was ftyled
obelos, or obelifeus.
As the wordiip of the ferpent began among the fons
of Chus, Mr Bryant conjectures, that from thence they
were denominated Ethiopians and Aithiopians, from
Ath-ope or Ath-opcs, the god whom they wordiipped,
and not from their complexion : the Ethiopes brought
thefe rites into Greece, and called the idand where they
firft eftablidied them, El/opta, Sohs Serpentis infula, the
fame with Eubcea, or Oubaia, i. e. “ the ferpent idand.”
A a 2 The
[ 1S7 ]
S E R [ 188 ] S E R
Serpent The fame learned writer difcovers traces of the ferpent
SerrlLus wor^"1P among the Hyperboreans, at Rhodes, named
v  Ophiufi, in Phrygia, and upon the Hellefpont, in the
ifland Cyprus, in Crete, among the Athenians, in the
name of Cecrops, among the natives of Thebes in Boeo-
tia, among the Lacedemonians, in Italy, in Syria, &c.
and in the names of many places, as well as of the peo¬
ple where the Ophites fettled. One of the moft early
herdies introduced into the Chriftian church was that
of the Ophitte. Bryant’s Analyfis of Ancient Mytho¬
logy, vol. i. p. 43, &c. p. 473, &c.
Serpent Stones. See Cornu Ammonis, and SNAKE-
Stones.
Sea-SERPENT. See SEA Serpent.
SERPLNTARIA, Snake-root j a fpecies of
Aristolochia. See Botany and Materia Medi-
ca Index.
SERF ENT ARI US, in AJlronomy, a conftellation
of the northern hemifphere, called alio Ophiuchus, and
anciently ./Efculapius. The ftars in the conftellation
Serpentarius, in Piolemy’s catalogue, are 29 ■, in Tycho’s
15 j in Hevelius’s 40 ; in the Britannic catalogue they
are 74.
SERPENTINE, in general, denotes any thing that
refembles a ferpent j hence the worm or pipe of a ftill,
twilled in a fpiral manner, is termed a ferpentine worm.
SERPENTINE Stone, a fpecies of mineral belonging
to the magnefian genus. See MINERALOGY Index.
Serpentine verfes, are Inch as begin and end with
the fame word. As,
Ambo Jlorentes eetatibus, Arcades ambo.
SERPENTINE, in the Manege. A horfe is faid to
have a ferpentine tongue, if it is always frifking and
moving, and fometimes palling over the bit, inftead of
keeping in the void fpace, called the liberty of the
tongue.
SERPICULA, a genus of plants belonging to the
clafs moncecia. See Botany Index.
SERPIGO, in Surgery, a kind of herpes, popularly
■called a tetter or ringworm. See Surgery.
SERPULA, a genus belonging to the clafs of vermes
and to the order of teftacea. See Conchology Index.
SERRANUS, Joannes, or John de Serres, a learn¬
ed French Proteftant, was born about the middle of the
16th century. He acquired the Greek and Latin lan¬
guages at Laufanne, and devoted himfelf to the ftudy of
the philofophy of Ariftctle and Plato. On his return
to France he ftudied divinity. He began to diftinguilh
himfelf in 1572 by his writings, but was obliged to for-
fake his country after the dreadful maffacre of St Bar¬
tholomew. He became minifter of Nifmes in 1582, but
was never regarded as a very zealous Calvinift : he has
even been fufpe&ed, though without reafon, of having
aftually abjured the Proteftant religion. He was one
of the four clergymen whom Henry IV. confulted about
the Romifti religion, and who returned for anfwer, that
Catholics might be faved. He wrote afterwards a trea-
tife in order to reconcile the two communions, entitled
De Jide Catholica, Jive de principiis religionis Chri/Hancs,
commnniomnium Chrijhancrum confenfu, femper et ubique
rails. This wrork was difliked by the Catholics, and
received with fuch indignation by the Calvinifts of Ge¬
neva, that many writers have affirmed that they poifon-
ed the author. It is certain at le^ft that he died at
Geneva in 1598, at the age of 50. His principal Scrranus
wrorks are, 1. A Latin tranllation of Plato, publilhed ll
by Henry Stephens, wEich owes much of its reputation ^ervantlcn7
to the elegance of the Greek copy which accompanies v"
it. 2. A Treatife on the Immortality of the Soul.
3. De Jlatu religionis et re 'pubhcce in Francia. 4. Me~>
moire de la yne guerre civile et derniers troubles de
France Jous Charles IX. Ffc. 5. Invent aire general de
I'Hi/ioire de France, illujlre par la conference de l'Eg life
et de FEmpire, itfe. 6. Rccueil de chofe memorable ave¬
nue en France fous Henri II. Franfois II. Charles IX.
Henri III. Thefe three hiftorical treatites have been
juftly accufed of partiality and paffion j faults which it
is next to impoffible for a contemporary writer to avoid,
elpecially if he bore any part in the tranfadlions which
he deferibes. His ftyle is exceedingly incorrect and
inelegant j his miftakes too and mistfatements of fails
are very numerous.
SERRATED, in general, fomething indented or
notched in the manner of a faw j a term much ufed in
the defeription of the leaves of plants. See Botany
Index.
SERRATULA, Saw-wort, a genus of plants be¬
longing to the fyngenefia clafs, and in the natural fyftem
ranged under the 49th order, Compojitce. See Botany
Index.
SERRATUS, in Anatomy, a name given to feve-
ral mufcles, from their refemblance to a faw. See A-
NATOMY, Table of the Mufcles.
SERRISHIEHDAR, in Bengal, keeper of records
or accounts.
SERTORIUS, Quintus, an eminent Roman ge¬
neral j (fee Spain), under the biftory of which his ex¬
ploits are related.
SERTULARIA, a genus belonging to the clafs of
vermes, and to tire order of zoophyta. See HelmiN*
THOLOGY Index.
SERVAL, Mountain Cat. See Felis, Mammalia
Index.
SERVANDONI, John Nicolas, a celebrated ar-
chiteil, was born at Florence in 1695. He rendered
himfelf famous by his exquifite tafte in architeilure, and
by his genius for decorations, fetes, and building. He
wTas employed and rewarded by moft of the princes in
Europe. He w’as honoured in Portugal with the order
of Chrift : In France he was architedl and painter to
the king, and member of the different academies efta-
blilhed for the advancement of thefe arts. He received
the fame titles from the kings of Britain, Spain, Poland,
and from the duke of Wirtemberg. Notwithttanding
thefe advantages, his want of economy was fo great,
that he left nothing behind him. He died at Paris in
1766. Paris is indebted to him for many of its orna¬
ments. He made decorations for the theatres of London
and Drefden. The French king’s theatre, called la,
falle des Machines, was under his management for feme
time. He was permitted to exhibit fome (hows confid¬
ing of fimple decorations: Some of thefe were aftonifti-
ingly fublime ; his “ Defcent of iEneas into Hell” in
particular, and his “ Enchanted Foreft,” are well known.
Fie built and embelliftted a theatre at Chamber for
Marefchal Saxe ; and furniftied the plan and the model
of the theatre royal at Drefden. His genius for fetes
was remarkable ; he had the management of a great
number in Paris, and even in London. He condu£ie4
one
S E R
Servandoni, one at Lifbon given an account of a viftory gained by
, the duke of Cumberland. He was employed frequently
by the king of Portugal, to whom he prefented feveral
elegant plans and models. The prince of Wales, too,
father to the prefent king, engaged him in his fervice ;
but the death of that prince prevented the execution of
the defigns which had been projefted. He prefided at
the magnificent fete given at Vienna on account of the
marriage of the archduke Jofeph and the Infanta of
Parma. But it would be endlefs to attempt an enume¬
ration of all his performances and exhibitions.
SERVANT, a term of relation, lignifying a perfon
who owes and pays obedience for a certain time to
another in quality of a mailer.
As to the feveral forts of fervants : It was obferved,
under the article Liberty, that pure and proper flavery
does not, nay cannot, fubfiit in Britain : fuch we mean
whereby an abfolute and unlimited power is given to
the mailer over the life and fortune of the Have. And
indeed it is repugnant to reafon, and the principles of
natural law, that fuch a Hate ihould fubfiif anywhere.
See Slavery.
The law of England therefore abhors, and will not
endure, the exiilence of flavery within this nation : fo
that when an attempt wTas made to introduce it, by
Hatute i Edw. VI. c. 3. which ordained, that all idle
vagabonds fliould be made Haves, and fed upon bread,
water, or fmall drink, and refufe-meat ; fliould wear a
ring of iron round their necks, arms, or legs; and fliould
be compelled, by beating, chaining, or otherwife, to
perform the work affigned them, were it ever fo vile ;
the fpirit of the nation could not brook this condition,
even in the moft abandoned rogues j and therefore this
flatute was repealed in two years afterwards. And
now it is laid down, that a flave or negro, the inflant
he lands in Britain, becomes a freeman j that is, the
law will protefl him in the enjoyment of his perfon
and his property. Yet, with regard to any right
which the mafler may have lawfully acquired to the
perpetual fervice of John or Thomas, this will remain
exaftly in the fame flate as before : for this is no
more than the fame flate of fubjeflion for life which
every apprentice fubmits to for the fpace of feven years,
or fometimes for a longer term. Hence, too, it follows,
that the infamous and unchriftian praflice of withhold¬
ing baptifm from negro-fervants, left they fliould there¬
by gain their liberty, is totally without foundation, as
well as without excufe. The law of England a£fs
upon general and extenfive principles : it gives liberty,
rightly underftood, that is, proteftion, to a Jew, a
Turk, or a Heathen, as well as to thofe who profefs
the true religion of Chrift ; and it will not diffolve a
civil obligation between mafter and fervant, on account
of the alteration of faith in either of the parties ; but
the Have is entitled to the fame protection in England
before as after baptifm ; and, whatever fervice the Hea¬
then negro owed of right to his American mafter, by
general, not by local law, the fame (whatever it be) is
he bound to render when brought to England and made
a Chriftian.
1. The firft fort of fervants, therefore, acknowledged
by the law7s of England, are menial fervants ; fo called
from being intra mania, or domeftics. The contraft
betrveen them and their mafters arires upon the hiring.
If the hiring be general, without any particular, time
s e R
limited, the law conftrues it to be a hiring for a year ;
upon a principle of natural equity, that the fervant lhall
ferve and the mafter maintain him, throughout all the
revolutions of the refpe&ive feafons j as well when there
is work to be done, as when there is not: but the con¬
trail may be made for any larger or fmaller term. All
fingle men between 12 years old and 60, and married
ones under 30 years of age, and all fingle women between
1 2 and 40, not having any viable livelihood, are com¬
pellable by two juftices to go out to fervice in huf-
bandry or certain fpecific trades, for the promotion of
honeft induftry ; and no mafter can put away his fer¬
vant, or fervant leave his mafter, after being fo retained,
either before or at the end of his term, without a quar¬
ter’s warning ; unlefs upon reafonable caufe, to be allow¬
ed by a juftice of the peace : but they may part by con-
fent, or make a fpecial bargain.
2. Another fpecies of fervants are called apprentices,
(from apprendre, to learn) 5 and are ufually bound for
a term of years, by deed indented or indentures, to
ferve their mafters, and be maintained and inftruiled
by them. This is ufually done to perfons of trade, in
order to learn their art and myftery j and fometimes
very large fums are given with them as a premium for
fuch their inftruftion ; but it may be done to hufband-
men, nay, to gentlemen and others. And children of
poor perfons may be apprenticed out by the overfeers,..
with confent of two juftices, till 24 years of age, to
fuch perfons as are thought fitting j -who are alfo com¬
pellable to take them : and it is held, that gentlemen
of fortune, and clergymen, are equally liable with
others to fuch compulfion : for which purpofes our
ftatutes have made the indentures obligatory, even
though fuch parifh-apprentice be a minor,. Apprentices
to trades may be difeharged on reafonable caule, either
at the requeft of themfelves or mafters, at the quarter-
feffions, or by one juftice, with appeal to the feflions j
who may, by the equity of the ftatute, if they think it,
reafonable, diredl reftitution of a rateable (hare of the
money given with the apprentice : and parhh-appren*
tices may be difeharged in the fame manner by two
juftices. But if an apprentice, with whom lefs than io-
pounds hath been given, runs away from his mafter, he
is compellable to ferve out his time of abfence, or make
fatisfaftion for the fame, at any time within feven years
after the expiration of his original contrafl. See Ap¬
prentice and Apprenticeship.
3. A third fpecies of fervants are labourers^ who are
only hired by the day or the week, and do not live intra
mcenia, as part of the family, concerning whom the fta¬
tutes before cited have made many very good regulations 5
I. Direfting that all perfons who have no vifible effefts
may be compelled to work ; 2. Defining how long they
muft continue at work in fumrner and in winter: 3. Pu-
nithing fuch as leave or defert their work : 4, Empower¬
ing the juftices at feffions, or the Iheriff of the county,
to fettle their w’ages: and, 5,. Inflifting penalties on 1
fuch as-either give or ex aft more wages than are fo fet¬
tled.
4. There is yet a fourth fpecies of fervants,- if they may
be fo called, being, rather in a fuperior, a minifterial, ca¬
pacity *, fuch as fexvards, fadiors, and bailiffs ; whom,
however, the law confiders as fervants pro tempore, with
regard to fuch of their afts as affeft their mailer’s or enu-
player’s property.
[ 189 ]
Servant;.
S E R [ >90 ] SEE
•Servant
II
Servetus.
As to the manner in which this relation sftefts the
matter, the fervant himfelf, or third parties, fee the ar¬
ticle Master and Servant.
For the condition of fervants by the law of Scotland,
fee Law.
SERVETISTS, a name given to the modern Anti-
trinitarians, from their being fuppofed to be the followers
of Michael Servetus-, who, in the year 1553, was burnt
at Geneva, together with his books.
SERVETUS, Michael, a learned Spanith phyfi-
cian, w-as born at Villaneuva, in Arragon, in 1509. He
was lent to the univertity of Touloufe to Itudy the civil
law. The Reformation, which had awakened the moft
polifhed nations of Europe, direfted the attention of
thinking men to the errors of the Romifh church and
to the Rudy of the Scriptures. Among the reft Ser¬
vetus applied to this ftudy. From the love of novelty,
or the love of truth, he carried his inquiries far beyond
the other reformers, and not only renounced the falfe opi¬
nions of the Roman Catholics, but went fo far as to
queftion the doctrine of the Trinity. Accordingly, af¬
ter (pending two or three years at Touloufe, he deter¬
mined to go into Germany to propagate his new opi¬
nions, where he could do it with moft fafety. At Ba-
fil he had fome conferences with Oecolampadius. He
w-ent next to Stralburg to vifit Bucer and Capito,
two eminent reformers of that town. From Strafburg
he went to Flugenau, where he printed a book, intitled
De Trinitatis Erroribus, \n 1531. The enfuing year
he publilhed two other treatifes on the fame fubjedt : in
an advertifement to which, he informs the reader that
it was not his intention to retraft any of his former fen-
timents, but only to ftate them in a more diftindt and
accurate manner. To thefe two publications he had the
courage to put his name, not fufpecting that in age
when liberty of opinion was granted, the exercife of
that liberty would be attended with danger. After
publiihing thefe books, he left Germany, probably find¬
ing his doftrines not fo cordially received as he expedt-
ed. He went firft to Baftl, and thence to Lyons, where
he lived two or three years. He then removed to Pa¬
ris, where he ftudied medicine under Sylvius, Fernelius,
and other profefibrs, and obtained the degree of mafter
of arts and dodlor of medicine. His love of controverfy
involved him in a ferious difpute with the phyficians of
Paris-, and he wrote an Apology, which was fuppreffed
by an edidl of the Parliament. The mifunderftanding
which this difpute produced w-ith his colleagues, and the
chagrin which fo unfavourable a termination occaftoned,
made him leave Paris in difguft. He fettled two or
three years in Lyons, and engaged with the Frellons,
eminent printers of that age, as a corredtor to their
prefs. At Lyons he met with Pierre Palmier, the
archbiftiop of Vienne, with whom he had been ac¬
quainted at Paris. That prelate, who was a great en-
courager of learned men, preffed him to accompany him
to Vienne, offering hira at the fame time an apartment
in his palace. Servetus accepted the offer, and might
have lived a tranquil and happy life at Vienne, if he
could have confined his attention to medicine and lite¬
rature. But the love of controverfy, and an eagernefs
to cftablifh his opinions, always poffeffed him. At this
time Calvin wTas at the head of the reformed church at
Geneva. With Servetus he had been acquainted at Pa¬
ris, and had there oppofed his opinions, For 16 years
2
Calvin kept up a correfpondence with him, endeavour- Servetm.
ing to reclaim him from his errors. Servetus had read""v ‘
the works of Calvin, but did not think they merited the
high eulogies of the reformers, nor were they fufficient
to convince him of his errors. Fie continued, however,
to confult him ; aud for this purpofe fent from Lyons to
Geneva three queftions, which refpedted the divinity of
Jefus Chrift, regeneration, and the neceffity of baptifm.
To thefe Calvin returned a civil anfwer. Servetus treat¬
ed the anfwer with contempt, and Calvin replied with
warmth. From reafoning he had receurfe to abufive
language -, and this produced a polemical hatred, the
moft implacable difpofition in the world. Calvin having
obtained fome of Servetus’s papers, by means, it is faid,
not very honourable, lent them to Vienne along with
the private letters which he had received in the courfe
of their correfpondence. The confequence was, that
Servetus was arrefted -, but having efcaped from prifon,
be refolved to retire to Naples, where he hoped to
praftife medicine with the fame reputation which he had
fo long enjoyed at Vienne. Fie imprudently took his
route through Geneva, though he could not but know
that Calvin was his mortal enemy. Calvin informed the
magiftrates of his arrival; Servetus was apprehended,
and appointed to ftand trial for herefy and blafphemy.
It was a law at Geneva, that every accufer fhould fur-
render himfelf a prifoner, that if the charge ftiould be
found falfe, the accufer ftiould fuffer the puniftiment in
which he meant to involve the accufed. Calvin not choo-
fing to go to prifon himfelf, fent one of his domeftics to
prefent the impeachment againft Servetus. The articles
brought againft him were collefted from his writings with
great care -, an employment which took up three days.
One of thefe articles was, “ that Servelus had denied
that Judsea was a beautiful, rich, and fertile country ;
and affirmed, on the authority of travellers, that it was
poor, barren, and difagreeable.” He was alfo charged
with “ corrupting the Latin Bible, which he was em¬
ployed to correft at Lyons, by introducing imperti¬
nent, trifling, whimfical, and impious notes of his own
through every page.” But the main article, which
was certainly fatal to him, w^as, “ that in the perfon of
Mr Calvin, minifter of the word of God in the church
of Geneva, be had defamed the doftrine that is preach¬
ed, uttering all imaginable injurious, blafphemous words
againft it.”
Calvin vifited Servetus in prifon, and had frequent
conferences with him : but finding that, in oppofition
to all the arguments he could employ, the prifoner re¬
mained inflexible in his opinions, he left him to his fate.
Before fentence w^as paffed, the magiftrates of Geneva
confulted the minifters of Bale, of Bern, and Zurich
and, as another account informs us, the magiftrates of
the Proteftant Cantons of Switzerland. And to ena¬
ble them to form a judgment of the criminality of Ser¬
vetus, they tranfmitted the writings of Calvin, with his
anfwers. The general opinion was, that Servetus ought
to be condemned to death for blafphemy. He w-as ac¬
cordingly fentenced to be burnt alive on the 27th of
Oftober 1553. As he continued alive in the midft of
the flames more than two hours, it is faid, finding his
torment thus protracted, he exclaimed, “ Unhappy
wretch that I am ! Will the flames be infufticient to
terminate my mifery ! What then ! Will the hundred
pieces of gold, and the rich collar which they took from
me,
. S E R [
Srrvetus, me, not purchafe wood enough to confume me mor<
e~ quickly !” “ Though the ientence of death was paffed
againft Servetus by the magiftrates of Geneva, with the
approbation of a great number of the magiitrates and
minilters of Switzerland, yet it is the opinion of molt
hiltorians that this dreadful fentence was impofed at the
inftigation of Calvin. This aft of feverity for holding a
fpeculalive opinion, however erroneous and abfurd, has
left a ftain on the charafter of this illuitrious reformer,
which will attend the name of Calvin as long as hiftory
fh'all preferve it from oblivion. The addrefs and art
which he ufed in apprehending Servetus, his inhuma¬
nity to him during his trial, his diffimulation and ma¬
levolence after his condemnation, prove that he was as
much influenced by perfonal hatred as by a defire to
fupport the interett of religion, though probably, du¬
ring the trial, Calvin believed he was performing a very
pious aftion. This intolerant fpirit of Calvin and the
magillrates of Geneva gave the Roman Catholics a fa¬
vourable opportunity to accufe the Proteftants of incon-
fiftcncy in their principles, which they did not fail to
embrace. “ How could the magiftrates (fays the au¬
thor oi the Diflwnnaire des Herejies), who acknowledged
no infallible interpretation of the Scriptures, condemn
Servetus to death becaufe he explained them differently
from Calvin ; fince every man has the privilege to ex¬
pound the Scripture, according to his own judgment,
without having recourfe to the church? It is a great
injuflice to condemn a man becaufe he will not fubmit
to the judgment of an enthufiaft, who may be tvrong as
well as himfelf.”
Servetus was a man of great acutenefs and learning,
and well verfed in the arts and fciences. In his own
profeffion his genius exerted itfelf with fuccefs. In his
traft intitled Chrijlianifmi Reflitutio, publifhed in 1553,
he remarks, that the whole mafs of blood pafles
through the lungs by the pulmonary artery and vein,
in oppofition to the opinion which was then univerfally
entertained, that the blood pafles through the partition
which divides the two ventricles. This was an impor¬
tant fiep towards the difcovery of the circulation of the
blood.
His works confift of Controverfial Writings concern¬
ing the Trinity; an edition of Pagninus’s Verfion of
the Bible, with a preface and notes, publiflied under
the name of Michael Villanevanus ; an Apology to
the Phyficians of Paris; and a book intitled Ratio
Syruporum. Molheim has written in Latin a Hiftory
of the Herefy and Misfortunes of Servetus, which was
publifhed at Helmftadt, in 4to, in 17 28. From the
curious details which it gives it is extremely interefting.
SERVIA, a province of Turkey in Europe, bound¬
ed on the north by the rivers Danube and Save, which
feparate it from Hungary ; on the eaft, by Bulgaria ;
on the weft, by Bofnia : and on the fouth, by Albania
and Macedonia. It is about 190 miles in length from
eaft to wreft ; 95 in breadth from north to fouth ; and
is divided into four fangiacates. Two of thefe were
ceded to the Chriftians in 1718, who united them into
one. I his continued till 1739, when the Turks were
viftorious ; and then they were abandoned to the
Turks by the treaty of Belgrade. Belgrade is the ca¬
pital town.
SERV ICE, in Law, is a duty which a tenant, on
account of his fee, owes to his lord.
191 1 8 E R
There are many divifions of fervices 3 as, 1. Into per- Service,
fonal, where fomething is to be done by the tenant1-—'/—--1
in perfon, as homage and fealty. 2. Real, fuch as
■wards, marriages, &c. 3. Accidental, including he-
riots, reliefs, and the like. 4. Entire, where, on the
alienation of any part of the lands by a tenant, the fer¬
vices become multiplied. 5. Frank-fervice, which was
performed by freemen, who were not obliged to perform
any bafe fervice, but only to find a man and horfe to at¬
tend the lord into the army or to court. 6. Knight’s
fervice, by which lands were anciently held of the king,
on paying homage, fervice in war, &c.
As in every free and well regulated fociety there
muft be a diverfity of ranks, there muft be a great
number of perfons employed in fervicc, both in agri¬
culture and domeftic affairs. In this country, fervice is
a contraft into which the fervant voluntarily enters ; and
the mafter’s authority extends no farther than to the per/
formance of that fpecies of labour for which the agree¬
ment was made.
“ The treatment of fervants (fays that refpeftable p
moral hi Mr Paley), as to diet, difeipline, and accom- Mo7al and
modation, the kind and quantity of work to be re- Political
quired of them, the intermiffion, liberty, and indulgence PhUofiphy,
to be allowed them, muft be determined in a great mea-P
lure by cuftom ; for where the contraft involves fo ma¬
ny particulars, the contxafting parties exprefs a few per¬
haps of the principal, and by mutual underftanding
refer the reft to the known cuftom of the country in like
cafes.
“ A fervant is not bound to obey the unlawful com¬
mands of his mafter ; to minifter, for inftance, to his un-
lawful pleafures ; or to affift him in unlawful praftices in
his profeflion ; as in fmuggling or adulterating the ar¬
ticles which he deals in. For the fervant is bound by
nothing but his own promife ; and the obligation of a
promife extends not to things unlawful.
“ For the fame reafon, the mafter’s authority does not
juftify the fervant in doing wrong ; for the fervant’s own
promife, upon which that authority is founded, would be
none.
“ Clerks and apprentices ought to be employed entire¬
ly in the profeffion or trade which they are intended to
learn. Inftruftion is their wages ; and to deprive them
of the opportunities of inftruftion, by taking up their
time with occupations foreign to their bufinefs, is to de¬
fraud them of their wages.
“ The mafter is refponfible for what a fervant does in
the ordinary courfe of his employment; for it is done
under a general authority committed to him, which is
in juftice equivalent to a fpecific direftion. Thus, if
I pay money to a banker’s clerk, the banker is ac¬
countable : but not if I had paid it to In’s butler or his
footman, whofe bufinefs it is not to receive money.
Upon the fame principle, if I once fend a fervant to
take up goods upon credit, whatever goods he after¬
wards takes up at the fame fhop, fo long as he conti¬
nues in my fervice, are juftly chargeable to my ac¬
count.
“ The law of this country goes great lengths in in¬
tending a kind of concurrence in the mafter, fo as to
charge him with the confequences of his fervants con-
duft. If an innkeeper’s fervant rob his guefts, the
innkeeper muft make reftitution ; if a farrier’s fervant
lame your horfe, the farrier muft anfwer for the da¬
mage ;
■S- E R t 192 ] S E R
mage J and ftili farther, if your coachman or carter
' drive over a paffenger in the road, the paflenger may
recover from you a fatisfaftion for the hurt he fuffers.
But thefe determinations ftand, I think, rather upon
the authority of the law, than any principle of natural
juftice.”
There is a grievance which has long and juftly
been complained of, the giving of good chara&ers to bad
fervants. This is perhaps owing to careleffhefs, to a de¬
fire of getting rid of a bad fervant, or to miftaken com-
paffion. But fuch careleffnefs is inexcufable. When a
man gives his fanftion to the character of a bad fervant,
he ought to refledl on the nature and confequences of
what he is doing. He is giving his name to a falfehood j
he is deceiving the honeft man w’ho confides in his vera¬
city } and he is deliberately giving a knave an opportu¬
nity of cheating an honeft man. To endeavour to get
quit of a bad fervant in this way, is furely not lefs cri¬
minal than concealing the faults and difadvantages of
an eflate which is advertifed for fale, and afcribing to it
advantages which it does not poffefs. In this cafe, we
know the fale wmuld be reduced, and the advertifer dif-
graced. Many mailers give characters to fervants out
of compaflion ; but it is to this miltaken compalfion that
the diforderly behaviour of fervants is perhaps principal¬
ly owing : for if the punilhment of difhonelty be only a
change of place (which may be^ a reward inltead of a
puniihment), it ceafes to be a fervant’s intereft to be true
to his trull.
We have faid above that a mailer’s authority over
his fervant extends no farther than the terms of contraCl j
by which we meant, that a mailer could give no unrea-
fonable orders to his fervant, or fuch as was inconfillent
with the terms of contraft. But the relation between
a mailer and fervant is certainly clofer than the mere
terms of a contraCl : it is a moral as well as a legal
relation. A mailer of a family ought to fuperinlend
the morals of his fervants, and to rellrain them from
vices. This he may do by his example, by his influ¬
ence, and authority. Indeed every man pofleffed of
authority is guilty of criminal negligence if he does not
exert his authority for promoting virtue in his inferiors j
and no authority is fo well adapted for this purpofe as
that of mailers of families, becaufe none operates with
an influence fo immediate and conllant. It is wonder¬
ful how much good a nolfleman or gentleman of for¬
tune can do to his domellics by attending to their mo¬
rals and every mailer may be a blelfing to individuals
and to fociety, by exerting prudently that influence
which his lituation gives him over the conduft of his
fervant.
Choral SERVICE, in church-hillory, denotes that part
of religious wmrlhip which confills in chanting and fing-
xng. The advocates for the high antiquity of finging,
as a part of church-mufic, urge the authority of St
Paul in its favour (Ephef. chap. v. ver. 19. and Co-
lof. chap. iii. ver. 16.). On the authority ofwdiichpaf-
fages it is aflerted, that fongs and hymns were, from the
elfablifhment of the church, fung in the affemblies of
the faithful 5 and it appears from undoubted tellimony,
that finging, which was pradlifed as a facred rite among
the Egyptians and Hebrews, at a very early period, and
which likewife conllituted a confiderable part of the re¬
ligious ceremonies of the Greeks and Romans, made a
part of the religious w'orlhip of Chrillians, not only b«-
l
fore churches were built, and their religion efiablilhed by Serv
law, but from the firlt profeflion of Chriltianity. How-
ever, the era from whence others have dated the intro-
dudlion of mufic into the fervice of the church, is that
period during which Leontius governed the church of
Antioch, z. e. between the year of Chrill 347 and 356.
See Antiphoky.
From Antioch the pradlice foon fpread through the
other churches of the Eall ; and in a few ages after its
firlt introdudlion into divine fervice, it not only re¬
ceived the fandtion of public authority, but thofe were
forbid to join in it who were ignorant of mufic. A
canon to this purpofe was made by the council of Lao-
dicea, which was held about the year 372 J and Zona-
nas informs us, that thefe canonical lingers w7ere rec¬
koned a part of the clergy. Singing was introduced
into the weltern churches by St Ambrofe about the
year 374, who was the inllitutor of the Ambrofian
chant ellablilhed at Milan about the year 386; and
Eufebius (lib. ii. cap. 17.) tells us, that a regular choir,
and method of finging the fervice, wTere firlt eltabliihed,
and hymns ufed, in the church at Antioch, during the
reign of Conllantine, and that St Ambrofe, who had
long refided there, had his melodies thence. This was
about 230 years afterwards amended by Pope Gregory
the Great, who ellablilhed the Gregorian chant; a
plain, unifonous kind of melody, which he thought
confiftent W’ith the gravity and dignity of the fervice to
which it was to be applied. This prevails in the Ro¬
man church even at this day : it is know-n in Italy by
the name of canto fermo ; in France by that of plaitt
chant; and in Germany and moft other countries by
that of the cantus Gregorianus. Although no fatisfac-
tory account has been given of the fpecific difference
between the Ambrofian and Gregorian chants, yet all
writers on this fubjeft agree in faying, that St Am¬
brofe only ufed the four authentic modes, and that
the four plagal were aftenvards added by St Gre¬
gory. Each of thefe had the fame final, or key-note,
as its relative authentic j from which there is no other
difference, than that the melodics in the four authen¬
tic or principal modes are generally confined within
the compafs of the eight notes above the key-note,
and thofe in the four plagal or relative modes, with¬
in the!'compafs of eight notes below7 the fifth of the key.
See Mode
Ecclefiallical w riters feem unanimous in allowing that
Pope Gregory, who began his pontificate in 590, col¬
lected the mufical fragments of fuch ancient pfalms
and hymns as the firll fathers of the church had appro¬
ved and recommended to the firll Chrillians j and that
he felefted, methodized, and arranged them in the or¬
der which was long continued at Rome, and foon adop¬
ted by the chief part of the wellern church. Gregory
is alfo faid to have banilhed from the church the canto
Jjgurato, as too light and diffolute ; and it is added, that
his own chant was called canto je> mo, from its gravity
and fimplicity.
It has been long a received opinion, that the eccle¬
fiallical tones were taken from the reformed modes of
Ptolemy j but Dr Burney obferves, that it is difficult
to difeover any conneflion between them, except in
their names ; for their number, upon examination, is
not the fame : thofe of Ptolemy being leven, the ec-
clefiaRical eight; and indeed the Greek names given to
S E K [ iQ3 1 S E R
Service, tlie eccleriaftical modes do not agree with thofe of Pto-
lemy in the fingle inftance of key, but with thofe of
higher antiquity. From the time of Gregory to that
of Guido, there was no other diftindtion of keys than
that of authentic and plagal •, nor were any femitones
ufed but thofe from E to F, B to C, and occafionally A
to B b.
With refpedl to the mufic of the primitive church, it
may be obferved, that though it confided in the finging
of pfalms and hymns, yet it was performed in many dif¬
ferent ways j fometimes the pfalms were fung by one
perfon alone, whilft the reft attended in filence; fome¬
times they were fung by the whole affembly •, fometimes
alternately, the congregation being divided into fepa-
rate choirs; and fometimes by one perfon, who repeated
the firft part of the verfe, the reft joining in the clofe of
it. Of the four different methods of finging now reci¬
ted, the fecond and third were properly diftinguifhed by
the names of fymphony and antiphony; and the latter
was fometimes called refponfaria, in which women were
allowed to join. St Ignatius, who, according to So¬
crates (lib. vi. cap. 8.), converted with the apoftles, is
generally fuppofed to have been the firft who fuggefted
to the primitive Chriftians in the Eaft the method of
finging hymns and pfalms alternately, or in dialogues j
and the cuftom foon prevailed in every place where Chri-
ftianity was eftablifhed ; though Theodoret in his hiftory
(lib. ii. cap. 24.) tells us, that this manner of finging was
firft praftifed at Antioch. It likewife appears, that al-
moft from the time when mufic was firft introduced into
the fervice of the church, it was of twro kinds, and con-
fifted in a gentle inflexion of the voice, which they term¬
ed plain fong, and a more elaborate and artificial kind
of mufic, adapted to the hymns and folemn offices con¬
tained in its ritual *, and this diftin£tion has been main¬
tained even to the prefent day.
Although we find a very early diftinftion made be¬
tween the manner of finging the hymns and chanting
the pfalms, it is, however, the opinion of the learned
Martini, that the mufic of the firft five or fix ages of
the church confifted chiefly in a plain and Ample chant
of unifons and oftaves, of which many fragments are
ftill remaining in the canto fermo of the Romiffi miffals.
For with refpedl to mufic in parts, as it does not ap¬
pear, in thefe early ages, that either the Greeks or Ro¬
mans were in poffeffion of harmony or counterpoint,
which has been generally afcribed to Guido, a monk of
Arezzo in Tufcany, about the year 1022, though others
have traced the origin of it to the eighth century, it is
in vain to feek it in the church. The choral mufic,
which had its rife in the church of Antioch, and from
thence fpread through Greece, Italy, France, Spain, and
Germany, was brought into Britain by the fingers who
accompanied Auftin the monk, when he came over, in
the year 596, charged with a commiflion to convert the
inhabitants of this country to Chriftianity. Bede tells
us, that when Auftin and the companions of his mif-
fion had their firft audience of King Ethelbert, in the
ifle of Thanet, they approached him in proceffion, fing¬
ing litanies ; and that afterwards, when they entered the
city of Canterbury, they fung a litany, and at the end
of it Allelujah. But though this wTas the firft time the
Anglo-Saxons had heard the Gregorian chant, yet Bede
likewife tells us, that our Britiffi anceftors had been in-
ftrutted in the rites and ceremonies of the Gallican
Vol. XIX. Part i.
church by St Germanus, and heard him fing Allelujah Service.
many years before the arrival of St Auftin. In 680, v
John, praecentor of St Peter’s in Rome, was fent over
by Pope Agatho to inftrutt the monks of Weremouth
in the art of finging 5 and he was prevailed upon to open
fchools for teaching mufic in other places in Northum¬
berland. BenediA Bifcop, the preceptor of Bede, Adrian
the monk, and many others, contributed to diffeminate
the knowledge of the Roman chant. At length the fuc-
ceffors of St Gregory, and of Auftin his miffionary,
having eftabliflied a fchool for ecclefiaftical mufic at Can¬
terbury, the reft of the ifland was furniftied with ma¬
ilers from that feminary. The choral lervice was firft
introduced in the cathedral church of Canterbury; and
till the arrival of Theodore, and his fettlement in that
fee, the pra£lice of it feems to have been confined to the
churches of Kent} but after that, it fpread over the
W'hole kingdom $ and we meet with records of very
ample endowments for the fupport of this part of public
wwlhip. This mode of religious worffiip prevailed in
all the European churches till the time of the Reforma¬
tion : the firft deviation from it is that which followed
the Reformation by Luther, W'ho, being himfelf a lover
of mufic, formed a liturgy, wffiich wras a mufical fervice,
contained in a work entitled Pfalmodia, h. e. Cantica
facra Veteris Ecclejice felefta, printed at Norimberg in
1553, and at Wittemberg in 1561. But Calvin, in his
eftablilhment of a church at Geneva, reduced the whole
of divine fervice to prayer, preaching, and finging ; the
latter of wffiich he reftrained. He excluded the offices
of the antiphon, hymn, and motet, of the Romith fer¬
vice, with that artificial and elaborate mufic to which
they were fung j and adopted only that plain metrical
pfalmody, which is now in general ufe among the re¬
formed churches, and in the parochial churches of our
owm country. For this purpofe he made ufe of Marot’s
verfion of the Pfalms, and employed a mufician to fet
them to eafy tunes only of one part. In 1553, he di¬
vided the Pfalms into paufes or fmall portions, and ap¬
pointed them to be fung in churches. Soon after they
wrere bound up with the Geneva catechif-j 5 from which
time the Catholics, who had been accuftomed to fing
them, w'ere forbid the ufe of them, under a fevere pe¬
nalty. Soon after the Reformation commenced in Eng¬
land, complaints were made by many of the dignified
clergy and others of the intricacy and difficulty of the
church-mufic of thofe times : in confequence of which
it was once propofed, that organs and curious finging
Ihould be removed from our churches. Latimer, in his
diocefe of Worcefter, went ftill farther, and iffued in¬
junctions to the prior and convent of St Mary, forbid¬
ding in their fervice all manner of finging. In the reign
of Edward VI. a commiffion was granted to eight bi-
fliops, eight divines, eight civilians, and eight common .
lawyers, to compile a body of fuch ecclefiaftical laws as
ftiould in future be obferved throughout the realm. The
refult of this compilation was a wTork firft; publiflred in
1571 by Fox the martyrologift, and afterwards in 1640,
under the title of Reformatio Legum Ecclefajlicarum.
Thefe 32 commiffioners, inftead of reprobating church-
mufic, merely condemned figurative and operofe mu¬
fic, or that kind of finging which abounded with
fugues, refponfive paffages, and a commixture of vari¬
ous and intricate proportions 5 which, whether extempo¬
rary or written, is by muficians termed defiant. Howr-
B b ever.
s E R [ 194 1 vS E S
Service ever, notwitManding the objeflions againft choral mu-
Set-vinide ^C’ anC^ t^E ^oine t^le reformed churches,
the compilers of the Englifh liturgy in 1548, and the
king himfelf, determined to retain mufical iervice. Ac¬
cordingly the ftatute 2 & 3 Edw. VI. cap. 1. though
it contains no formal obligation on the clergy, or
others, to uie or join in either vocal or inllrumental mu-
tic in the common prayer, does clearly recognife the
practice of tinging ; and in lefs than two years after the
compiling of King Edward’s liturgy, a formula vvascom-
poled, which continues, with fcarce any variation, to be
the rule for choral fervice even at this day. The author
of this work was John Marbecke, or Marbeike ; and it
was printed by Richard Grafton, in 1550 under the title
of the Book of Common Prayer, noted. Queen Mary
laboured to re-dlablifh the Romifh choral tervice; but
the acceffion of Elizabeth was followed by the aft of uni¬
formity ; in confequence of which, and of the queen’s
injiin&ions, the Book of Common Prayer, noted by Mar¬
becke, was confidered as the general formula of choral
fervice. In 1560, another mufical fervice, with fome
additions and improvements, was printed by John Day ;
and in 1565, another colle&ion of offices, with mufical
notes. Many objections were urged by Cartwright and
other Puritans againtt the form and manner of cathe¬
dral fervrcc, to which Hooker replied in his Ecclefiafti-
cal Polity. In i 664, the ftatutes of Edward VI. and
Elizabeth, for uniformity in the Common Prayer, were
repealed ; and the Directory for Public Worfhip, which
allows only of the finging of pfalms, eftablifhed. But
upon the reftoraiion of Charles II. choral fervice was
again revived, and has fince uniformly continued. See
, on this fubjeCt Hawkins’s Hiftory of Mufic, vol. i.
p. 404. vol. ii. p. 264. vol. iii. p. 58—468, &c. vol. iv.
P- 44—347-
SERVICE-Tree. See SoRBUS, BoTANV Index.
SERVITES, a religious order in the church of Rome,
founded about the year 1233, by feven Florentine mer¬
chants, w ho, with the approbation of the bilhop of Flo¬
rence, renounced the world, and lived together in a-re-
ligious community on Mount Senar, two leagues from
that city.
SERVITOR, in the univerfity of Oxford, a ftudent
who attends on another for his maintenance and learn¬
ing. See Sizar.
SERVITUDE, the condition of a fervant, or rather
flave.
Under the declenfion of the Roman empire, a new
kind of fervitude was introduced, different from that of
the ancient Romans : it confided in leaving the lands of
fubjugated nations to the firil owners, upon condition
of certain rents, and fervile offices, to be paid in ac¬
knowledgement. Hence the names of fervi cen/iti, a-
fcriptitu, and oddiEti glebce ; fome whereof were taxable
at the reafonable difcretion of the lord ; others at a cer¬
tain rate agreed on j and others were mainmortable,
who, having no legitimate children, could not make a
will to above the value of five pence, the lord being heir
of all the refi ; and others were prohibited marrying, or
going to live out of the lordffiip. Moft of thefe ferVices
exided lately in France ; but they were long ago abo-
lidied in England. Such, however, was the original of
our tenures, &c. See Slave.
Servitude, in Scots Law. See Law, Part III.
Se£E in.
2
SERVIUS, Maurus Honoratus, a celebrated Servius
grammarian and critic of antiquity, who flourilhed about !J
the time of xYrcadius and Honorius now chiefly known Selhon.
by his Commentaries on Virgil. There is alfo extant
a piece of Servius upon the feet of verfes and the quan¬
tity of fyllables, called Centimetrum.
SERUM, a thin, tranfparcnt, faltiffi liquor, which
makes a confiderable part of the mafs of blood. See
Anatomy and Chemistry Index.
SESAMOIDEA OSSA, certain fmall bones fome
what refemblmg the feeds of lefamum, whence their
name. They are placed at the under part of the bones
of the lad joints of the fingers and toes.
SESAMUM, oily grain , a genus of plants be-
longing to the clafs didynamia } and in the natural fyi-
tem ranging under the 20th order, Luridce. See Bo¬
tany Index.
SESELI, meadow SAXIFRAGE 5 a genus of plants
belonging to the clafs pentandiia ; and in the natural
fydem ranging under the 45th order, XJ?nbeUatce. See
Botany Index.
SESOSTRIS, king of Egypt. See Egypt, p. 591.
SESQUI, a Latin particle, fignifying a whole and
a half; which, joined with altera, ter%a, quanta, &c. is
much ufed in the Italian inufic to exprefs a kind of ra¬
tios, particularly feveral fpecies of triples.
SESg) UI-Alter ate, in Geometry and Arithmetic, is a
ratio betwxen two lines, two numbers, or the like, w here
one of them contains the other once, with the addition
of a half.
Thus 6 and 9 are in a fefqui-alterate ratio ; fince 9
contains 6 once, and 3, whith is half of 6, over; and
20 and 30 are in the fame ; as 30 contains 20, and half
20 or 10.
Ses^UI Duplicate ratio, is when of two terms the
greater contains the lefs twice, and half the lefs remains;
as 15 and 6 ; 50 and 20.
SESQUI Tertional proportion, is when any number or
quantity contains another once and one third.
SESSILE, among botanids. See Botany.
SESSION, in general, denotes each fitting or affem-
bly of a council, &c.
SESSION of Parliament, is the feafon or fpace from its
meeting to its prorogation. See Parliament.
Kirk-SESSION, the name of a petty ecclefiaflical court
in Scotland. See KlRK-Sef/ion.
Sessions for weights and meafures. In London,
four judices from among the mayor, recorder, and al¬
dermen (of whom the mayor and recorder is to be one),
may hold a feffion to inquire into the offences of felling
by falfe weights and meafures, contrary to the datutes ;
and to receive indiffments, puniffi offenders, &c. Char.
King Charles I.
Court of Session. See Law, Part III. Se£l ii.
. Court of ^itarter-SeSSIGNS, an Engliffi court that
mud be held in every county once in every quarter of a
year ; which, by datute 2 Henry V. c. 4. is appointed
to be in the firft week after Michaelmas-day, the firff
week after the epiphany, the fird week after the clofe of
Eader, and in the week after the tranflation of St Tho¬
mas the martyr, or the 7th of July. It is held before
two or more judices of the peace, one of which mud be
of the quorum. The jurifdiftion of this court, by 34
Edward III. c. T. extends to the trying and determining
all felonies and trefpaffes whatfoever: though they fel-
S E S
S flion, dom, it ever, try any greater offence than fmall felonies
iefterce- , within the benefit of clergy ; their commiffion provid-
v ing, that if any cafe of difficulty arifes, they flrall not
proceed to judgement, but in the prefence of one of the
juftices of the courts of king’s bench or common-pleas,
or one of the judges of affize : and therefore murders,
and other capital felonies, are ufually remitted for a
more folemn trial to the affizes. They cannot alfo try
any new-created offence, without exprefs power given
them by the ftatute which creates it. But there are
many offences and particular matters which, by parti¬
cular flatutes, belong properly to this jurifdicffion, and
ought to be profecuted in this court; as, the- fmaller
mildemeanors againft the public or commonwealth, not
amounting to felony ; and efpecially offences I'elating ta
the game, highways, alehoufes, baflard children, the
fettlement and provifion for the poor, vagrants, fervants
wages, and Popiffi recufants. Some of thefe are pro¬
ceeded upon by indiffment : others in a fummary way,
by motion, and order thereupon j which order may for
the mod: part, unlefs guarded againft by particular fta-
tutes, be removed into the court of king’s-bench by
writ of certiorari facias, and be there either quafhed
or confirmed. The records or rolls of the feffions are
committed to the cuftody of a fpecial officer, denomi¬
nated cujlos rotulorum, who is always a juftice of the
quorum j and among them of the quorum (faith Lam-
bard) a man for the moft part efpecially picked out,
either tor wifdom, countenance, or credit. The nomi¬
nation of the cujlos rotulorum (who is the principal offi¬
cer in the county, as the lord-lieutenant is chief in
military command) is by the king’s fign manual : and
to him the nomination of the clerk of the peace be¬
longs •, which office he is exprefsly forbidden to fell
for money.
In moft corporation-towns there are quarter-feffions
kept before juftices of their own, within their refpe&Le
limits 5 which have exadftly the fame authority as the
general quarter-feffions of the county, except in a very
few inftances ; one of the moft confiderable of which is
the matter of appeals from orders of removal of the poor,
which, though they be from the orders of corporation^
juftices, muft be to the feffions of the county, bv fta¬
tute 8 and 9 William III. c. 30. In both corporations
and counties at large, there is fometimes kept a fnecial
or petty feffion, by a few juftices, for difpatching fmaller
bufmefs in the neighbourhood between the times of the
general feffions ; as for licenfing alehoufes, palling the
account of parifh officers, and the like.
SESTERCE, Seste RTius, a filver coin, in ufe a-
mong the ancient Romans, called alfo {imply nummus,
and fometimes minimus fejlcrtius. The feftertius was
the fourth part of the denarius, and originally contained
two affes and a half. It was at firft denoted by LLS *,
the two L’s fignifying two librae, and the S half. But
the librarii, afterwards converting the two L’s into an
li, exprqffed the feftertius by HS. The word feflertius
was firft introduced by -way of abbreviation for femifler-
Uus, which fignifies two, and a half of a third, or, lite¬
rally, only half a third •, for in expreffing half a third, it
was underftood that there wmre two before.
Some authors make two kinds of fefterces j the lefs
called feflertius, in the mafeuline gender ; and the great
one, called fejlertium, in the neuter : the firft, that we
have already deferibed ) the latter containing a thoufand
s E S
of the other. Olliers will have any fuch diftindHon of SeftEr
gieat and little fefterces unknown to the Romans : fef-1 v
tertius, lay they, was an adjefhve, and lignified cxyg/^y-
tius, or two aftes and a halt} and when ufed in the plu¬
ral, as in quinquaginta fejlertium, or fefertia, it was only
by way ot aobreviation, and there was always under¬
ftood centena, millia, &c.
I his matter has been accurately ftated by Mr Raper,
in the following manner. The fubftantive to which
feftertius referred is either as, or pondus ; and fefertius
as is two affes and a half j fefertium pondus, two pon-
dera and a half, or two hundred and fifty denarii. When
the denarius paffed for ten affes, the feftertius of two affes
and a half was a quarter of it ; and the Romans conti¬
nued to keep their accounts in thele fefterces long after
the denarius palled for fixteen affes } till, growing rich,
they found it more convenient to reckon by quarters of
the denarius, which they called nummi, and ufed the
words minimus and fefertius indifferently, as fynonymous
terms, and fometimes both together, as fefertius mini¬
mus ; in which cale the word frfertius, having loft its
original fignificalion, was ufed as a fubftantive ; for fef-
tertius nummus was not two nummi and a half, but' a
fingle nummus of four affes. They called any fum un¬
der two thoufand fefterces fo many fefertii in the malcu-
line gender 5 two thoufand fefterces they called duo or
bina fefertia, in the neuter ; fo many quarters making
five hundred denarii, which was twice the feftertium ;
and they faid dena, vicena, &c. fefertia, till the fum
amounted to a thoufand feftertia, which was a million of
fefterces. But, to avoid ambiguity, they did not ufe the
wzulzx fef ertinm in the Angular number, when the whole
fum amounted to no more than a thoufand fefterces, or
one feftertium. They called a million of fefterces dccies
nummum, 01 decies ffertium, for decies centena millia
nummorum, or fefertiorum (in the mafeuline gender),
omitting centena millia for the fake of brevity. They
likewife called the fame fum decies ffertium (in the
neuter gender) for decies centies ffertium, omitting
centies for the fame reaion ; or limply decies, omitting
centena milha fe/lertium, or centies fefertium ; and with
the numeral adverbs dec es, vicies, centies, millies, and
the like, either centena millia or centies was always un-
derftood. Thefe were their moft ufual forms of ex-
preflion ; though for bina, dena, vicena fefertia, they fre¬
quently faid bina, dena, vicena niill;a nummum. It the
confular denarius contained 60 troy grains of fine filver,
L was worth fomewhat more than eight-pence farthing
and a half fterlii g; and the as, of 16 to the denarius, a
little more than a half-penny. To reduce the ancient
fefterces of two aftes and a half, when the denarius paffed
for 16, to pounds fterling, multiply the given number
by 5454, and cut off fix figures on the right hand for
decimals. To reduce nummi fefertii, or quarters of the
denarius, to pounds fttrling ; if the given fum be con¬
fular money, multiply it by 8727, and cut off fix figures
on the right hand for decimals; but for imperial money
diminifh the faid produft by one-eighth of itfelf. Phil.
'I rank vol. Ixi. part ii. art. 48.
To be qualified for a Roman knight, an eftate of
400,000 feferces was required 5 and for a fenator, of
800,coo.
Authors alfo mention a copper feferce, worth about
one-third of a penny Englifh.
SESTERCE, or frfertius, was alfo ufed by the ancients
B b 2 for
[ 195 ]
19
Seftos
i'
Seth.
SET [
for a thing containing two wholes and an half of ano¬
ther, as as was taken for any whole or integer.
SESTOS, a noted fortrefs of European Turkey,
fituated at the entrance of the Hellefpont or Darda¬
nelles, 24 miles fouth-weft of Gallipoli. This place is
famous for the loves of Hero and LeaNDER, lung by
the poet Mukeus.
SESUViUM, a genus of plants belonging to the
clafs icofandria. See Botany Index.
SET, or Sets, a term ufed by the farmers and gar¬
deners to exprefs the young plants of the white thorn
and other Ihrubs, with which they ufe to raife their
quick or quick-fet hedges. The white thorn is the belt
of all trees for this purpofe 5 and, under proper regula¬
tions, its fets feldom fail of anfwering the farmer’s utmoft
expectations.
SET-off, in Lave, is an aft whereby the defendant ac¬
knowledges the juftice of the plaintiff’s demand on the
one hand ; but, on the other, fets up a demand of his
own, to counterbalance that of the plaintiff, either in
the whole, or in part : as, if the plaintiff fues for 10I.
due on a note of hand, the defendant may fet off 9I.
due to hirnfelf for merchandife fold to the plaintiff j
and, in cafe he pleads fuch fet-off, muff pay the remain¬
ing balance into court. This anfwers very nearly to
the compenfatio or ftoppage of the civil law, and depends
upon the ffatutes 2 Geo. II. cap. 22. and 8 Geo. II.
cap. 24.
SETACEOUS WORM, in Natural HiJlorijy a name
given by Dr Lifter to that long and llender water-
worm, which fo much refembles a horfe-hair, that it
has been fuppofed by the vulgar to be an animated hair
of that creature. Thefe creatures, fuppofed to be living
hairs, are a peculiar fort of infeCts, which are bred and
nouriftied within the bodies of other infefts, as the worms
of the ichneumon flies are in the bodies of the cater¬
pillars.
Aldrovand deferibes the creature, and tells us it was
unknown to the ancients j but called feta aquatica, and
vermis felarius, by the moderns, either from its figure
rcfembling that of a hair, or from the fuppofition of its
once having been the hair of fome animal. We gene¬
rally fuppofe it, in the imaginary ftate of the hair, to
have belonged to a horfe •, but the Germans fay it was
once the hair of a calf, and call it by a name fignifying
vitulus aquaticus, or the “ water calf.”
Albertus, an author much reverenced by the common
people, has declared that this animal is generated of
a hair ; and adds, that any hair thrown into ftanding
water, will, in a very little time, obtain life and motion.
Other authors have diffented from this opinion, and fup¬
pofed them generated of the fibrous roots of water-
plants j and others, of the parts of grafshoppers fallen
into the w^ater. This laft opinion is rejefled by Al¬
drovand as the moft improbable of all. Standing and
fjul wTaters are moft plentifully ftored with them j but
they are fometimes found in the cleareft and pureft
fprings, and fometimes out of the water, on the leaves
of trees and plants, as on the fruit-trees in our gardens,
and the elms in hedges. They are from three to five
inches long, of the thicknefs of a large hair •, and are
browm upon the back, and white under the belly, and
the tail is white on every part.
SETH, the third fon of Adam, the father of Enos,
was born 3874 B. C, and lived 912 years.
5 ] S E V
SETHIANS, in church-hiftory, Chriftian heretics j Setluans
fo called becaufe they paid divine worfhip to Seth, SevJance
whom they looked upon to be Jefus Chrift the fon of ' ’
God, but who wTas made by a third divinity, and fub-
ftituted in the room of the two families of Abel and
Cain, which had been deftroyed by the deluge. Thefe
heretics appeared in Egypt in the fecond century ; and
as they were addidfed to all forts of debauchery, they
did not want followers •, and continued in Egypt above
200 years.
SETIMO, a town of Italy, in the province of Pied¬
mont, fituated on the river Po, eight miles north of
Turin.
SETON, in Surgery, a few horfe hairs, fmall threads,
or large packthread, drawn through the fkin, chiefly the
neck, by means of a large needle or probe, with a view
to reftore or preferve health.
Experience ftrews that fetons are ufeful in catarrhs,
inflammations, and other diforders, and particularly thofe
of the eyes *, to thefe may be added fevere headachs,
with ftupor, drow’finefs, epilepfies, and even apoplexy
itfelf. See Surgery.
SETTEE, in fea-language, a veffel very common in
the Mediterranean with one deck and a very long and
(harp prow. They carry fome two mafts, fome three,
without top-mafts. They have generally two mafts,
equipped with triangular fails, commonly called lateen
fails. The leaft of them are of 60 tons burden. They
ferve to tranfport cannon and provifions for (hips of war
and the like. Thefe veffels are peculiar to the Medi¬
terranean fea, and are ufually navigated by Italians,
Greeks, or Mahometans.
SETTING, in Afronomy, the withdrawing of a ftar
or planet, or its finking below the horizon. Aftrono-
mers and poets make three different kinds of felting of
the ftars, viz. the Cosmical, Acronycal, and Heli¬
acal. See thefe articles.
Setting, in the fea language. To fet the land or
the fun by the compafs, is to obierve how the land bears
on any point of the compafs, or on what point of the
compafs the fun is. Alfo when two (hips fail in fight of
one another, to mark on wdrat point the chafed bears, is
termed fetting the chace by the compafs.
Setting, among fportimen, a term ufed to exprefs
the manner of taking partridges by means of a dog pe¬
culiarly trained to that purpofe. See Shooting.
Act of SETTLEMENT, in Britifh hiftory, a
name given to the ftatute 12 and 13 Will. III. cap. 2.
whereby the crown was limited to his prefent majefty’s
illuftrious houfe •, and fome new provifions were added,
at the fame fortunate era, for better fecuring our reli¬
gion, laws, and liberties : which the ftatute declares^ to.
be the birthright of the people of England, according,
to the ancient doftrine of the common law.
SEVEN Stars, a common denomination given to
the duller of ftars in the neck of the fign Taurus, the
bull properly called the Pleiades. They are fo called,
from their number feven, which appear to the naked
eye, though fome eyes can difeover only fix of them ,
but by the aid of telefcopes there appears to be a great
multitude of them.
SEVENTH, in Mvfc, an interval called by the
Greeks heptachordon. See INTERVAL.
SEVERANCE, in Law, the fingling or fevering two
or more that join or are joined in the fame writ or ac¬
tion.
Severn.
S E V [i
Severance tion. As if two join in a writ, de liberlate probanda,
and the one be afterwards nonfuited } here feverance is
permitted, fo as notwithftanding the nonfuit of the one,
’ the other may feverally proceed.
There is alfo feverance of the tenants in aflize ; when
one, two, or more difl'eifees appear upon the writ, and
not the other. And feverance in debt, where two exe¬
cutors are named plaintiffs, and the one refufes to pro-
fecute. We alfo meet with feverance of fummons, fe¬
verance in attaints, &c. An eftate in joint tenancy may
be fevered and deftroyed by deftroying any of its unities.
1. That of time, which refpefts only the original com¬
mencement of the joint eftate, cannot indeed (being now
part) be affe&ed by any fubfequent tranfaftion. But,
2. The joint-tenants eftate may be deftroyed without any
alienation, by merely difuniting their poffeftion. 3.. ITe
jointure may be deftroyed, by deftroying the unity of
title. And^ 4. By deftroying the unity of intereft.
SEVERIA, a province of the Ruffian empire, with
the title of a duchy, bounded on the north by Smo-
lenfko and Mufcovy, on the eaft by Vorotinffii and the
country of the Coffacks, on the fouth by the fame,
and on the weft by Zernegovia. It is a country over¬
run with woods, and on the fouth part is a foreft of
great length. Novogrodec, or Novogorod, is the capi¬
tal town.
St SEVERINA, a town of Italy, in the kingdom
of Naples, and in Lower Calabria, with an archbilhop’s
fee. It is very rvell fortified, and feated on a craggy
rock, on the river Neetoj in E. Long. 17. 14. N. Lat.
39. 15.
SEVERING, a town of Italy, in the territory of
the church, and in the Marche of Ancona, with a bi-
ftiop’s fee. It has fine vineyards, and is feated between
two hills on the river Petenza, in E. Long. 13. 6.
N. Lat. 43. 16.
SEVERN, a river of England which rifes near
Plimlimmon Hill in Montgomeryffiire, and before it
enters Shropftiire receives about 30 ftreams, and paffes
down to Laudring, where it receives the Morda, that
flows from Ofweftry. When it arrives at Monford,, it
receives the river IVdon, paffing on to Shrewftjury, which
it almoft furrounds, then to Bridgeworth •, afterwards
it runs through the fkirts of Staffordftiire, enters Wor-
/ucombe's cefterfhire, and paffes by Worcefter ; then it runs to
E^gli/b Tewkefbury, where it joins the Avon, and from thence
Gazetteer, to Gloucefter, keeping a north-wefterly courfe, till it
falls into the Brirtol Channel. It begins to be.naviga-
ble for boats at Welchpool, in Montgomery (hire, and
takes in feveral other rivers in its courfe, befides thofe
already mentioned, and is the fecond in England. By
the late inland navigation, it has communication with
the rivers Merfey, Dee, Ribble, Oufe, 1 rent, Derwent,
Humber, Thames, Avon, &c. which navigation, includ¬
ing its windings, extends above $00 miles in the counties
of Lincoln, Nottingham, York, Lancafter, Vi eftmore-
land, Chefter, Stafford, Warwick, Leicefter, Oxford,
Worcefter, &c. A canal from Stroud-Water, a branch
of the Severn, to join the Thames, was projefled and
executed for the purpofe of conveying a tunnel 16 feet
high and 16 feet wide, under Sapperton Hill and Hay-
ley-Wood (very high ground), for two miles, and a
quarter in length, through a very hard rock, which was
lined and arched with brick. This ftupendous under¬
taking was completed, and boats paffed through it the
97 ] s E v
21 ft of May 1789. By this opening, a communication is
made between the river Severn at Framiload and the ^
Thames near Lechlade, and will be continued over the
Thames near Inglefham, into deep water in the Thames
below St John-Bridge, and fo to Oxford, &c. and Lon¬
don, for conveyance of coals, goods, &c. It is now na¬
vigable from the Severn to Themsford, by way of Stroud,
Cirencefter, Cricklade, &c. being filled with water for
that purpofe near 40 miles.
SEVERUS, Cornelius, an ancient Latin poet of
the Auguftan age ; whofe /Etna, together with a frag¬
ment I)e nwrte Ciceronis, wrere publiftied, with notes
and a profe interpretation, by Le Clerc, 12mo, Am-
fterdam, 1703. They w7ere before inferted among
the Catalecia Virgilii publiftied by Scaliger j whole
notes, with others, Le Clerc has received among his
Severn,
Severus.
VJ VX 11.
Severus, Septimus, a Roman emperor, who has been
fo much admired for his military talents, that fome have
called him the moft warlike of the Roman emperors.
As a monarch he was cruel, and it has been obferved
that he never did an a£t of humanity or forgave a fault.
In his diet he was temperate, and he always ftiowed
himfelf an open enemy to pomp and fplendor. He loved
the appellation of a man of letters, and he even com-
pofed an hiftory of his owm reign, which fome have
praifed for its corredlnefs and veracity. How'ever.cruel
Severus may appear in his puniftiments and in his re¬
venge, many have endeavoured to exculpate him, and
obferved that there was need of feverity in an empire
where the morals were fo corrupted, and where no lefs
than 3000 perfons wrere accufed of adultery during the
fpace of 17 years. Of him, as of Auguftus, fome were-
difpofed to fay, that it would have been better for the
world if he had never been born, or had never died. See
Rome. N° 372.
Se VEBua's Wall, in Britilh topography, the fourth
and laft barrier eredled by the Romans againft the in-
curfions of the North Britons.. See the articles Adrian,.
and Antoninus's Wall.
We learn from feveral hints in the Roman hiftoriansf
that the country between the walls of Hadrian and An»-
toninus continued to be a feene of perpetual war and lub-
je£t of contention between the Romans- and Britons,
from the beginning of the reign ot Commodus to the ar¬
rival of the emperor Septimius S.verusin Britain, A.D.
206. This laft emperor having iubdutd the Maeatae,
and repul fed the Caledonians, determined to ereft a
fironger and more impenetrable barrier than any of the-
former, againft their future incurfions.
Though neither Dio nor Herodian make any-men¬
tion of a w'all built by Sevetus in Britain for the pro-
teftion of the Roman province, yet we have abundant
evidence from other writers-of equal authority, that he
really built fuch a wall. “ He fortified. Britain (fays-
Spartian) with a wall drawn crofs the iftand from fea.
to fea ; which is the greateft glory of his reign. After
the wall w'as finiftied, he retired to the next ftation
(York), not only a conqueror, but the founder of an
eternal peace.” To the fame purpofe, Aurelius Vi&or
and Orofius, to fay nothing of Eutropius and Caffiodo-
rus : “ Having repelled the enemy in Britain, he foi-
tified the country, wrhich was fuited to that purpofe,
with a w-all drawn crofs the ifland from fea to fea. —-*•
“ Severus drew a great ditch, and built a ftrong wall,
& fortified
S E v f !
Severu?- ^rtified with fevcral turrets, from fea to fea, to protccl
that part of the ifland which he had recovered from
the yet unconquered nations.” As the refidence of the
emperor Severus in Britain was not quite four years, it
is probable that the tno laft of them were employed in
building this w’all $ according to which account, it was
begun A. D. 209, and finifhed A. I). 211.
This wall of Severus was built nearly on the fame
tia£l with Hadrian’s rampart, at the diiiance only of a
few paces north, i he length of this wall, from Cou-
fin’s houfe near the mouth of the river Tyne on the eait,
to Boulnefs on the Solway frith on the weft, hath been
found, from two actual menfurations, to be a little more
than 68 Englifh miles, and a little lefs than 74 Roman
miles. X o the north of tne wall was a Dioad and deep
ditch, the original dimenfions of which cannot now be
afeertained, only it feems to have been larger than that
of Hadrian. The wall itfelf, which flood on the fouth
bmitv of the ditch, was built of freeftone, and where
the foundation was not good, it is built on piles of
oak ; the interflices between the two faces of this wall
is filled with broad thin ftones, placed not perpendicu¬
larly, but obliquely on their edges j the running mortar
or cement was then poured upon them, which, by its
great ftrength and tenacity, bound the whole together,
and made it firm as a rock. But though thefe mate¬
rials are fufficiently known, it is not eafy to guefs where
they were procured, for many parts of the wall are at
a great diflance from any quarry of freeftone } and,
though ftone of another kind was within reach, yet it
docs not appear to have been anywhere ufed. The
height of this wall was 1 2 feet befides the parapet, and
its breadth S feet, according to Bede, who lived only
at a fmall diftance from the" call end of it, and in whofe
time it was in many places almoft quite entire. Such
was the wall eredted by the command and under the direc¬
tion of the emperor Severus in the north of England ;
and, confidering the length, breadth, height, and foli-
dity, it was certainly a work of great magnificence and
prodigious labour. But the wall itfelf was but a part,
and not the moll extraordinary part, of this work. The
great number and different kinds of fortreffes which
were built along the line of it for its defence, and the
military ways with which it was attended, are (till more
worthy of our admiration, and come now to be de¬
fer! bed.
The fortreffes which were erecled along the line of
Severus’s wall for its defence, were of three different
kinds, and three different degrees of ftrensth ; and
xvere called by three different Latin words, which may
be tranflated Jiatwns, cnjlles, and turrets. Of each of
thefe in their order.
_ Vhejiationes, ftations, rvere fo called from their lia¬
bility and the Hated refidence of garrifons. They were
alfo called cajlra, which hath been converted into c/ie/Ires,
a name which many of them ftill bear. Thefe were by
far the larged, ftiongeft, and n oft magnificent of the
fortreffes which were built upon the wall, and were de¬
fined for the head-quarters of the cohorts of troops
which were placed there in garrifon, and from whence
detachments were fent into the adjoining caftles and tur¬
rets. Thefe ffations, as appears from the -eftiges of
them which are ftill vifible, were not all exadlly of the
fame figure nor of the fame dimenfions ; fome of them
being exactly fquares, and others oblong, and fome of
ys 1 s e v
them a little larger than others. Thefe variations were
no doubt occafioned by the difference of fituation and
other circumftances. The ftations were fortified with
deep ditches and ftrong walls, the wall itfelf coinciding
witn and forming the north wall of each ftation. With¬
in the ftations were lodgings for the officers and foldiers
in garnfon 5 the fmalleif of them being fufficient to con¬
tain a cohort, or 600 men. Without the walls of each
ftation was a town, inhabited by labourers, artificers,
and others, both Romans and Britons, who chofe to
dwell under the proteftion of thefe fortreffes. The num-
ber og the flations upon the wall was exaftly 18; and
5 t ley had been placed at equal diilances, the interval
between every two of them would have been four miles
and a few paces: but the intervention of rivers, marfhes
and mountains y the conveniency of fituations for
tiength, profpeft, and water ; and many other circum-
kances to us unknown, determined them to place thefe
ftations at unequal diftances. The fituation which was
always chofen by the Romans, both here and everywhere
elfe m Britain where they could obtain it, was the gen¬
tle declivity of a hill, near a river, and facing the me¬
ridian fun. Such was the fituation of the far greateft
part of the ftations on this wall. In general, we may
obferve, that the ftations flood thickeft near the two
ends and in the middle, probably becaufe the danger of
mvafion was greateft in tbefe places. But the reader
will form a clearer idea of the number of thefe ftations
their Latin and Englifh names, their fituation and di¬
ftance from one another, by infpe&ing the followino-
fabie, than we can give him with equal brevity in any.
other way. The firft column contains the number of
the ftation, reckoning from eaft to weft ; the fecond
contains its Latin,_ and the third its Englifh name ; and
the three laft its diftance from the next ftation to the
weft of it, in miles, furlongs, and chains.
N°;Lat.in Name.
Englifh Name. M. i F. i C.
Segedunum
Pons /Elii
Condercum
Vindobala
Hunnum
Cilurnum
Procolitia
Borcovicus
Vindolana
TEfica
Magna
Amboglana
Petriana
Aballaba
Congavata
Axelodunum
17 jGabrofentumlBrunibrugh
18 iTunnocelum Boulnefs
Coufin’s-houfe
Newcaftle
Benwell hill
Rutchefter
Plalton-chefters
W alwick-chefters
Carrawbrugh
Houfefteeds
Little-chefters
Great-chefters
Carrvoran
Burdofwald
Cam beck
Watchcrofs
Stanwix
Brugh
9
5
3i
7
8
3i
8
4
6f
o
8
6
9
4!
9
1
Length of the wall 68
3 3
. 'Lhe cqJleHa, or caftles, were the fecond kind of for¬
tifications which were built along the line of this wall
for its defence. Thefe caftles were neither fo large nor
ftrong
O
Severn;
S E V [ J
llror.g as the Nations, but much more numerous, bein'-*-
~ no fewer than 81. The thape and dimennons of the
caftles, as appears from the foundations of manv of them
which are ftill vifible, were ex aft fquares of 66 feet every
way. They were fortified on every fide with thick and
lofty walls, but without any ditch, except on the north
fide; on which the wall itfelf, railed much above its
ufual height, with the ditch attending it, formed the
fortification. The caftles were fituated in the intervals
between the ftations, at the diftance of about feven fur¬
longs from each other ; though particular circumftances
fornetimes occafioned a little variation. In thefe caftles
guards were conftantly kept by a competent number of
men detached from the neareft ftations.
^ The turret, or turrets, were the third and laft kind
of fortifications on tire wall. Thefe were ftiil much
fmall er than the caftles, and formed only a fquare of
about i 2 feet, Handing out of the wall on its fouth
hde. Being fo final], they are more entirely ruined
than the ftations and caftles, which makes it difficult
to difcover their exaft number. They flood in the in¬
tervals between the caftles; and from the faint veftiges
o'a few of them, it is conjeftured that there were four
of them between every two caftles, at the diftance of
about 300 yards from one another. According to this
conjefture, the number of the turrets amounted to 324.
They were defined for watch-towers and places for
fentinels, who, being within hearing of one another,
could convey an alarm or piece of intelligence to all
parts of the wall in a very little time.
Such were the ftations, caftles, and turrets, on the
wall of Severus ; and a very confidevable body of troops
was conftantly quartered in them for its defence.
'The ufual complement allowed for this fervice was as
follows ;
1. Twelve cohorts ©f foot, confifting of 600
men each, - . . ^2oo
2. One cohort of mariners in the ftation at Boul-
nefs, * - - - 600
3. One detachment of Moors, probably equal to
a cohort, - . - 600
4. Four aim or wings of horfe, confifting, at the
loweft computation, of 400 each, - 1600
10,000
For the conveniency of marching thefe troops from
one part of the wall to another, with the greater eale
and expedition, on any fervice, it was attended with two
military ways, paved with fquare ftones, in the moft fo-
lid and beautiful manner. One of thefe ways was fmall-
er, and the other larger. The fmaller military way run
clofe along the fouth fide of the wall, from turret to
turret, and caftle to caftle, for the ufe of the foldiers in
relieving their guards and centinels, and fuch fervices.
1 he larger way did not keep fo near the wall, nor
touch at the turrets or caftles, but purfued the moft di-
ref! courfe from one ftation to another, and was defign-
ed for the conveniency of marching larger bodies of
troops.
It is to be regretted, that we cannot gratify the read¬
er s curiofity, by informing him by what particular bo¬
dies of Roman troops the feveral parts of this great work
were executed ; as we were enabled to do with regard
99 1 S E V
10 the wall of Antoninus Pius from inferiptions. For Severn?,
though it is probable that there were ftones with inferip- —y—~
tions of the fame kind, mentioning the feveral bodies of
troops, and the quantity of work performed by each of
them, originally mferted in the face of this wall, yet
none of them are now to be found. There have indeed
been dilcovered, in or near the ruins of this wall a
great number of fmall fquare Hones, with very ftmrt
and generally impei-fedl, inferiptions upon them ; men¬
tioning particular legions, cohorts, and centuries; but
wuhout diredly afferting that they had built any part
ot the wall, or naming any number of paces. Of thefe
infciiptions, the reader may lee no fewer than twenty-
nine among the Northumberland and Cumberland in-
fenptions in Mr Horfley’s Britannia Romana. As the
ftones on which thefe inferiptions are cut are of the fame
Hi ape and fize with the other facing-ftones of this wall,
it is almoft certain that they have been originally placed
in^the face of ft. It is equally certain, from the unifor¬
mity of thele inferiptions, that they vrere all intended to
intimate feme one thing, and nothing fo probable as
that the adjacent wall was built by the troops mention¬
ed in them. This was, perhaps, fo well underftood,
that it was not thought neceffary to be expreffed ; and
the diftance oi thefe inferiptions from one another Ihow-
ed the quantity of work performed. If this was really
the cafe, we know in general, that this great work was
executed by the fecond and fixth legions, thefe being
the only legions mentioned in thefe inferiptions. Nowq
if this prodigious wall, with all its appendages of ditches,'
ftations, caftles, turrets, and military ways,' was execu¬
ted in the fpace of two years by two legions only, which,
when moft complete, made no more than 1 2,000 men^
how greatly muft we admire the {kill, the induftry,
and excellent difeipline of the Roman foldiers, who were
not only the valiant guardians of the empire in times of
war, but its moft afiive and ufeful members in times ©f
peace ?
1 his waft oi Severus, and its fortrefles, proved an
impenetrable barrier to the Roman territories for near
2co years. But about the beginning of the 5th cen¬
tury, the Roman empire being aflaulted on all fides,
and the bulk of tbeir forces withdrawn from Britain'
the Maeatm and Caledonians, now called Scots and PiSIs
became more daring; and fome of them breaking through
the wall, and others failing round the ends of it, they
carried their ravages into the very heart of Provincial
Britain. Thefe invaders were indeed feveral times re.
pulfed after this by the Roman legions fent to the relief
of the Britons. The laft: of thefe legions, under the
command of Gallio of Ravenna, having, w-ith the affift-
ance of the Britons, thoroughly repaired the breaches of
Severus’s wall and its fortrefies, and exhorted the Bri¬
tons to make a brave defence, took their final farewell
of Britain. It foon appeared, that the ftrongeft walls,
and ramparts are no fecurity to an undilciplined and daf-
tardly rabble, as the unhappy Britons then were. The
Swots and Putts met with little refiftance in breaking
through the wall, while the towns and caftles were
tamely abandoned to their deftruftive rage. In many
places they levelled it with the ground, that it might
prove no obftrmftion to their future inroads.—From this
time no attempts were ever made to repair this noble
work. Its beauty and grandeur procured it no refpeft
in the dark and taftelefs ages which fucceeded. It be¬
came
I
■is E V t 200
Sevignc. came tlic common quarry for more than a llioufand
1    years, out of which all the towns and villages around
were built j and is now fo entirely ruined, that the pe¬
netrating eyes of the moil poring and patient antiqua¬
rian can hardly trace its vanilhing foundations.
SEVIGNE', Marie de Rabutin, Marquise de,
a French lady, was born in 1626. When only a year
old fhe loft her father, w7ho was killed in the defcent of
the Englifh on the ille of Rhe, where he commanded a
company of volunteers. In 1644 Ihe married the mar¬
quis of Sevigne, wTho wras (lain in a duel by the cheva¬
lier d’Albret, in 1651. She had by him a fon and a
daughter, to the education of whom lire afterwards re-
ligioufly devoted herfelf. Her daughter was married
in 1669 to the count of Grignan, who condu&ed her
to Provence. IVIadame de Sevigne confoled herfelf by
■writing frequent letters to her daughter. She fell at
laft the vi&im to her maternal tendernefs. In one of
her vifits to Grignan, {he fatigued herfelf fo much du¬
ring the ficknefs of her daughter, that Ihe was feized
with a fever, which carried her off on the 14th of Ja¬
nuary 1696. We have twro portraits of Madame de
Sevigne ; the one by the compte de Buffi, the othei by
Madame de la Fayette. The firft exhibits her delefts j
the fecond her excellencies. Bufli defcnbes her as a
lively gay coquette, a lover of flattery, fond of titles, ho¬
nour, and diftinftion : M. de la Fayette as a w7oman
of wit and good fenfe, as poffeffed of a noble foul, form¬
ed for difpenfing benefits, incapable of debafing herfelf
by avarice, and bleffed with a generous, obliging, and
faithful heart. Both thefe portraits are in feme mea-
fure juft. That fhe was vain-glorious, appears evident
from her owrn letters, wThich, on the other hand, ex¬
hibit undoubted proofs of her virtue and goodoefs of
This illuftrious lady was acquainted wdth all the wits
of her age. It is faid that fire decided tlm famous dif-
pute between Perrault and Boileau concerning the pre¬
ference of the ancients to the moderns, thus,. “ The an¬
cients are the fineft, and we are the. prettieft. She
left behind her a moft valuable colleftion of letters, the
beft edition of which is that of 1775, in 8 vols i2mo.
Siecle de ^ « Thefe letters (fays Voltaire) are filled with anecdotes,
Louis XlV. with freedom, and in a natural and animated
tom. ii. ftyle. are an excellent criticifm on ftudied letters of
wit, and ftill more on thofe fiailious letters which aim
at the epiftolary ftyle, by a recital of falfe fentiments
and feigned adventures to an imaginary correfpondent.”
It were to be wifhed that a proper feleaion had been
made of thefe letters. It is difficult to read eight vo¬
lumes of letters, which, though inimitably written, pre-
fent frequent repetitions, and are often filled with trifles.
What makes them in general perhaps fo interefting is,
that they are in part hiftorical. They may be looked
on as a relation of the manners, the ton, the genius, the
fafhions, the etiquette, which reigned in the court of
Louis XIV. They contain many curious anecdotes no¬
where elfe to be found : But thefe excellencies would
be ftill more ftriking, were they fometimes ftripped of
that multitude of domeftic affairs and minute incidents
which ought naturally to have died with the mother and
the daughter. A volume entitled Sevigniana was pub-
liffied at Paris in 1756, which is nothing more than a
colle&ion of the fine fentiments, literary and hiftorical
Sevifle.
] S E V
anecdotes, and moral apophthegms, fcattered throughout
thefe letters.
SEVILLE, a large and populous city of Spain,
ftands on the banks of the Guadalquiver, in the midft
of a rich, and to the eye a boundlefs, plain ; in W.
Long. 50 5', N. Lat. 370 20'. This city is fuppofe.d
to have been founded by the Phoenicians, who gave it
the name of Hifpalis. When it fell under the power
of the Romans, it was called Julia ; and at laft, after a
variety of corruptions, was called Sebil/a or Sevilla;
both of which names are retained by the Spaniards. The
Romans embelliftred it with many magnificent edifices j
of which fcarce any veftige now remains. The Gothic
kings for fome time made it their refidence : but in
procefs of time they removed their court to Toledo ;
and Seville was taken by ftorm foon after the vi&ory
obtained at Xeres over the Gothic king Rodrigo.—
In 1027, Seville became an independent monarchy;
but was conquered 70 years afterwards by Yufef Al-
moravides, an African prince. At laft it was taken
by Ferdinand III. after a year’s fiege; and 300,000
Moors were then obliged to leave the place. Not-
withftanding this prodigious emigration, Seville conti¬
nued to be a great and populous city, and foon after it
was enlarged and adorned with many magnificent build¬
ings, the chief of which is the cathedral. Seville arri¬
ved at its utmoft pitch of grandeur a little after the dif-
covery of America, the reafon of which was, that all the
valuable produdlions of the Weft Indies were carried
thither. Its court was then the moft fplendid in Eu¬
rope ; but in the courfe of a few years all this grandeur
difappeared, owing to the impediments in navigating the
Guadalquiver. The fuperior excellence of the port of
Cadiz induced government to order the galeons to be
ftationed there in time to come.
Seville is of a circular form, and is furrounded by a
wall about five miles and a half in circumference, con¬
taining 176 towers. The ditch in many places is filled
up. The ftreets of Seville are crooked and dirty, and
moft of them fo narrow that two carriages can fcarcely
pafs one another abreaft.
Seville is faid to contain 80,268 fouls, and is divi¬
ded into 30 pariihes. It has 84 convents, wdth 24 hof-
pitals* . . . .
Of the public edifices of this city the cathedral is the TownfendPi
moft magnificent. Its dimenfions are 420 feet in \tr\g\h, Travels,
263 in breadth within the walls, and 126 feet in height, vol. ii.
It has nine doors, 80 altars, at which 500 maffes are
daily celebrated, and 80 window's of painted glafs, each
of which coft 1000 ducats. At one angle ftands a
tower of Moorifti workmanftiip 350 feet high. On the
top of it is the giralda, or large brazen image, which,
with its palm branch, weighs near one. ton and a. half,
yet turns as a w7eather-cock with the flighteft variation
of the wind. The whole w7ork is brick and mortar.
The paffage to the top is an inclined plane, which winds
about in the infide in the manner of a fpiral ftaircafe,
fo eafy of afcent that a horfe might trot from the bot¬
tom to the top ; at the fame time it is fo wide that two
horfemen may ride abreaft. What appears very unac¬
countable, the folid mafonry in the upper half is juft as
thick again as that in the lower, though on the outfide
the tower is all the way of the fame dimenfions. In the
opinion of Mr Swinburne, this cathedral is inferior to
1 York-
Seville
JSot/rgo-
anne's Tra
vels, vol.
f Vol. ii.
p. 318-
Swin¬
burne's
Travels,
P- ?8j.
Toiunfejid's
Travels,
vol. ii.
p. 326.
s E V [ 2CI
York minfler. Its treafures are ineftimable ; one altar
with all its ornaments is folid fiilver j of the fame metal
are the images of St Ifidore and St Leander, which are
as large as the life ; and a tabernacle for the hoft more
than four yards high, adorned with 48 columns. Be¬
fore the choir of the cathedral is the tomb of the cele¬
brated Chriflopher Columbus, the difeoverer of Ame¬
rica.^ Hfs monument confills of one (lone only, on
which thefe words are inferibed, A Caftella y Arragon
otro mundo d:o Colon; that is, “ T<* Caftile and Arra¬
gon Columbus gave another world an infeription
fimple and expreffive, the juftnefs of which will be ac¬
knowledged by thofe who have read the adventures of
t ins inullnous but unfortunate man. I he cathedral was
begun by Don Sancho the Brave, about the clofe of the
13th century, and nnithed by John II. about an hundred
years after. To the cathedral belongs a library of
20,030 volumes, colkfted by Hernando the fon of Co¬
lumbus 3 but, to the difgrace of the Spaniards, it has
fcarcely received any addition fmee the de&th of the
founder. The organ in this cathedral is a very inge¬
nious piece of mechanifm f. “ I was much pleafed (fays
Mr Townfend in his interefting travels) with the con-
ftmflion of a new organ, containing 5300 pipes, with
110 flops, which latter, as the builder told me,’is 50
more than are in the famous one of Haerlem ; yet, fo
ample arc the bellows, that when ftretched they limply
the full organ 15 minutes. The mode of filling them
wdh air is Angular 3 for, inflead of working with his
bands, a man walks backwards and forwards along an
inclined plane of about 15 feet in length, which is ba¬
lanced in the middle on its axis 3 under each end is a
pair of bellows, of about fix feet by three and a half.
Thefe communicate with five other pairs united by a
bar 3 and the latter are fo contrived, that when they are
in danger of being overftrained, a valve is lifted up, and
gives them relief. Faffing 10 times along the inclined
plane fills all thefe vefiels.’’
I he Canos de Carmone, or great aqueduct of Se¬
ville, is reckoned by the hilforians of this city one of
t<ie moft wonderful works of antiquity. IVfr Swinburne,
however, remarks, that it is ugly, crooked, the arches
unequal, and the architeflure neglected. The conduit
js fo leaky, that a rivulet is formed by the wafte water.
Nevertheleis, it fiill conveys to the city an ample fup-
ply of water fufficient to turn fcveral mills, and to give
almoft every houfe in town the benefit of it.
Many of the convents are remarkable for the beauty
of their architeeiure 3 but in Seville the eye covets only
pictures, of which there is a wonderful profufion. Among
tnefe are the works of the famous painter Murillo, with
many others univerfally admired.
# Ike convent of the Francifcans contains 1 c; cloifters,
with apartments for 200 monks, though, when Mr
Townfend vifited them, they amounted cnly to 140.
1 he. annual expenditure of thefe, who are all fed on
charity, is about 40001. fterling. “ In the principal
cloifier (fays the fame intelligent traveller), which is
entiiely inclofed by a msltitude of little chapels, are re-
prefented, in 14 pictures, each called a Jlation, all the
Vol. XIX. Part I.
} S E V
futFerings or the Redeemer. Thefe are lb arranged as
to mark given diftances by walking round the cloifter
fiom the firft to the lecond, and lo in order to the reft.
Over them is mentioned the number of fteps taken by
our Lord between the feveral incidents of his paffion in
his way to Calvary 3 and thefe precifely are the paces
meafured foi the penitents in their progrefs from one
flation to another. Over one is the following inlcrip-
tion : ‘ This ftation confifts of 1087 fteps. Here the
bkfled Redeemer fell a fecond time under the weight of
his crofs, and here is to be gained the indulgence of
feven years and forty quarantines. Mental prayer, the
Paternofter, and the Ave Maria.’ This may ferve as
an example for the reft.”
^ The principal manufa&ure of Seville is fnuff. Mr
Townfend, who paid particular attention to it, informs
us, that the building in which it is carried on is elegant
and fimple in its form, and is about 600 feet by 480,
and not lefs than 60 feet in height, with four regular
fronts, inclofing 28 quadrangles. It coft 37,t>oo,oco of
reals, or about 370,000!. At prefent (1787), no more
than 1700 workmen are employed, and 100 horfes or
mules 3 but formerly 3000 men were engaged, and near
400 horfes. This falling off is attributed by Mr Swin¬
burne to a praclice which the direftors followed, of
adulterating the tobacco with the red earth of Alma-
zarron. When Mr Townfend vifited this manufacture,
they had changed their fyfiem. From the year 1780!
he informs us, the annual fale of tobacco from Brazil
has been 1,500,000 pounds, purchafed from the Portu-
guefe at three reals a pound 3 and of fnuff from the pro¬
duce of their own colonies 1,600,000 pounds, befide
agars (a) to a very confiderable amount. They have
lying by them more than 5,000,000 pounds of fnuff un¬
fold j but.as it will not fuffer by age, they are not un-
eafy.at this accumulation. Befides the peculiar kind of
fnuft with which Spain was accuflomed to fupply the
market, they have lately introduced the manufafture of
rappee. In this branch alone are employed 220 perfons
old and young, with 16 mules.
“ All the workmen (continues Mr Townfend) depofit
their cloaks at the door ; and when they go out are fo
ffriaiy examined, that they have little chance of being
able to conceal tobacco 3 yet they fometimes venture to
bide it about their perfons. i\n officer and a guard is
always attending to take delinquents into cuftody ; and
that they may prevent refiftance, no workman is per¬
mitted to enter with a knife. Were it not for this pre¬
caution, the confequence of a detedion might be fatal.
The whole bufinefs is conduded by a diredor, with a
lalary of 40,000 reals a-year, and 54 fuperior officers,
affiffed by as many fubordinate to them. For grinding
their fnuff, they have 40 mills, each confiffing of a ftone
roller, moved by a large horfe or mule, with the traces
faffened to a beam of eight feet in length, in the angle
of 45 degrees, confequently lofmg precifely half his
force.”
Before Mr Townfend left Seville, according to his
ufual pradice, which was truly laudable, be enquired
into the prices of labour and provifions. As a piece of
C c curious
(a) Thefe are little rolls of tobacco which the Spaniards fmoke without a pipe.
S E W
[ 202 ]
SEW
Seville
il
Sewer.
curious and ufeful information, and as an example to
other travellers, we prefent them to our readers. They
i are as follows :
Day-labourers 4-^ reals, about L. o
Carpenters from 7 to 11  
Joiners, if good work¬
men, 24   or o
Weavers, if good workmen, 15 reals,
about o
Bread, for 3 lb. of 16 oz. 16 quar¬
tos, or o
   fometimes 28 quartos, or o
Beef, 30 quartos for 32 oz. per lb. about o
Mutton, 38 do. do. o
Kid, 24 do. o
f or o
\ to o
0 10-
4 9
Pork from 36 to 42 quartos, do.
4i
?¥
4t
Sfi
3i
SU
The price of wheat has at different periods been very
remarkable. In 1652, it fold at the rate of 15s.
the buflrel ; and in 1657, ^ low as IS- 4id- per
bulhel, reckoning the fanega at 109^ lb. and the bufhel
at 70.
SEVUM MINER ALE, mineral tallow •, a fubflanee
fomewhat refembling tallow, found on the fea-coafls of
Finland in the year 1736. It burns with a blue flame,
and fmell of greafe, leaving a black vifcid matter which
cannot eafily be confumed. It is extremely light 5 be¬
ing only of the fpecific gravity of 0.770 ; whereas tal¬
low is not lefs than 0.969. It is partly foluble in high¬
ly rectified fpirit of wine; but entirely fo in expreffed
oils when boiling. It is met with in fome of the rocky
parts of Perfla, but there it appears to be mixed with
petrolmum. Dr Herman of Strafhurg mentions a fpring
in the neighbourhood of that city which contains a fub-
itancc of'this fort diffufed through it, feparating, and
capable of being collected on ebullition.—A fat mineral
matter refembling butter or tallow has lately been ex¬
tracted from peat in Lancafhire. See Peat.
SEWAURY, a Hindoo word uied in Bengal, and
iignifying the train of attendants that accompany a na¬
bob or great man.
SEWER, in the lloufehold, an officer who arranged
on the table the diflies of a king or nobleman.
Sewer is alfo a paffage or gutter made to carry wa¬
ter into the fea or a river, whereby to preferve the land,
&c. from inundations and other annoyances.
Court of ComtniJJioners of Se WEES in England, a tem¬
porary tribunal, erected by virtue of a commiffion un¬
der the great feal; which formerly ufed to be granted
pro re nata at the pleafure of the crown, but now at
the diferetion and nomination of the lord chancellor,
lord treafurer, and chief juftices, purfuant to the ftatute
23 Hen. VIII. c. 5. Their jurifdiftion is to overlook
the repairs of fea-banks and fea-walls, and the cleanfmg
of rivers, public ftreams, ditches, and other conduits,
whereby any ■waters are carried off; and is confined to
inch county or particular diftrift as the commiffion {hall
exprefsly name. The commiffioners are a court of re¬
cord, and may fine and imprifon for contempts ; and in
the execution of their duty may proceed by jury, or up¬
on their own view, and may take order for the removal
of any annoyances, or the fafeguard and confervation of
the fewers within their commiffion, either according to
the laws and cufloms of Romney-marffi, or otherwiie at Sewer,
their own diferetion. They may alfo affefs fuch rates —-v——
or fcots upon the owners of lands within their diltridl as
they ihall judge neceffary : and if any perfon refufes to
pay them, the commiffioners may levy the fame by di-
ftrefs of his goods and chattels; or they may, by ftatute
23 Hen. VIII. c. 5. fell his freehold lands (and by the
7 Ann. c. jo. his copyhold alfo), in order to pay fuch
fcots or affeffments. But their conduft is under the
controul of the court of King’s-bench, which will pre¬
vent or punifti any illegal or tyrannical proceedings.
And yet in the reign of King James I. (8th Nov. 1616.),
the privy-council took upon them to order, that no ac¬
tion or complaint Ihould be profecuted againft the com¬
miffioners unlefs before that board ; and committed fe-
veral to prifon rvho had brought iuch adtions at common
law, till they fhould releafe the fame : and one of the
reafons for difeharging Sir Edward Coke from his cffice-
of lord chief-juftice, was for countenancing thofe legal
proceedings. The pretence for thefe arbitrary meafures
\vas no other than the tyiant’s plea of the neceffity of
unlimited powers in works of evident utility to the pub¬
lic, “ the fupreme reafon above all reafons, which is the
falvation of the king’s lands and people.” But now it
is clearly held, that this (as well as all other inferior
jurifdidtion) is fubjedl to the difcrelionary coercion of
his majefty’s court of King’s-bench.
Common SEWERS, in Rome, were executed at a great Fcrgufon's
expence. It was propofed that they fhould be of fuffi- K}y"‘cu\
cient dimenfions to admit a waggon loaded with hay. '' 1
When thefe common fewers came to be obftiucled, or
out of repair, under the republic, the cenfors contradf-
ed to pay a thoufand talents, or. about 193,000!. for
clearing and repairing them. They were again in dif-
repair at the acceflion of Auguftus Csefar, and the re-
inftating them is mentioned among the great works of
Agrippa. He is find to have turned the courfe of
feven rivers into thefe fubterraneous paffages, to have
made them navigable, and to have actually paffed in
barges under the ftreets find buildings of Rome. Thefe
works are ftill fuppofed to remain ; but as they exceed
the power and refources of the prefer t city to keep them
in repair, they are quite concealed, except at one or two
places. They were in the midft of the Roman great-
nefs, and ftill are, reckoned among the wonders of the
world ; and yet they are faid to have been works of the
elder Tarquin, a prince whofe territory did not extend,
in any direftion, above 16 miles ; and, on this fuppofi-
tion, they muft have been made to accommodate a citj
that was calculated chiefly for the reception of cattle,
herdfmen, and banditti. Rude nations fometimes execute
works of great magnificence, as fortrtffes and temples,
for the purpofes of wTar and fuperftition ; but feldom
palaces, and ftill more feldom works of mere convenience
and cleanlinefs, in which for the moft pait they are long
defective. It is not unreafonable, therefore, to queftion
the authority of tradition in refpeft to this ftngular mo¬
nument of antiquity, which fo greatly exceeds what tie
heft accommodated city of modern Europe could un¬
dertake for its own conveniency. And as thofe works
are ftill entire, and may continue fo for thoufands of
years, it may be fufpe&ed that they were even prior to
the fettlement of Romu’us, and may have been the re¬
mains of a more ancient city, on the ruins of which the
followers of Romulus fettled, as the Arabs now hut cr
encamp
SEX (2
encamp cn tlie ruins of Palmyra and Salbcck. .Livy
owns, that the common fewers were not accommodated
to the plan of Rome, as it was laid out in his time 5 they
were carried in direftions acrofs the ilreets, and paffed
under buildings of the greateid antiquity. This derange¬
ment indeed he imputes to the baity rebuilding of the
city after its deftrudtion by the Gauls; but hade, it is
probable, would have determined the people to build on
their old foundations, or at lead not to change them fo
much as to crofs the direction of former fireets.
SEX, the property by which any animal is male or
female.
Lavater has drawn the following charafteriflic di-
flinctions between the male and female of the human
fpecies.
“ The primary matter of which women are conftitu-
ted appears to be move flexible, irritable, and elaftic,
than that of man. They are formed to maternal mild-
hefs and affecflion ; all their organs are tender, yielding,
eafily wounded, fenflble, and receptible. Among a
thoufand females there is fcarctly one without the ge¬
neric feminine fignsq the flexible, the circular, and the
irritable.
“ They are the counterpart of man, taken out of
man, to be fubjeft to man ; to comfort him like angels,
and to lighten his caves. ‘ She fliall be faved in child¬
bearing, if they continue in faith, and charity, and holi-
nefs, with fobriety” (x Tim. ii. 15.). This tendernefs,
this fen Ability, this light texture of their fibres and or¬
gans, this volatility of feeling, render them fo eafy to
condutt and to tempt ; fo ready of fubmiflion to the
enterprife and power .of the man ; but more powerful
through the aid of their charms than man with all his
flrength. The man was not firfi tempted, but the wo¬
man," afterward the man by the woman. And, not on¬
ly eafy to be tempted, Are is capable of being formed
to the pureft, nobleft, molt feraphic virtue $ to every
thing which can deferve praife or affedfion. Highly
fenfible of purity, beauty, and fymmetry, fhe does not
always take time to refleft on internal life, internal death,
internal corruption. ‘ The woman faw that the tree
was good for food, and that it was pleafant to the eyes,
and a tree to be defired to make one wife, and Are took
of the fruit thereof.’ (Gen. iii. 6.).
“ The female thinks not profoundly •, profound thought
is the power of the man. Women feel more. Senfibi-
lity is the power of woman. They often rule more ef-
fedfually, more fovereignly, than man. They rule with
tender looks, tears, and fighs ; but not with paflion and
threats 5 for if, or when, they fo rule, they are no longer
women, but abortions. They are capable of the fweeteft
fenfibility, the mofl profound emotion, the utmoft humi¬
lity, and the excefs of enthufiafm. In their countenance
are the figns of fanftity and inviolability, which every
feeling man honours, and the effefts of which are often
miraculous. Therefore, by the irritability of their nerves,
their incapacity for deep inquiry and firm decifion, they
may eafily from their extreme fenfibility become the
moft irreclaimable, the mofl rapturous enthufiafts. i heir
love, flrong and rooted as it is, is very changeable ; their
hatred almofl incurable, and only to be effaced by con¬
tinued and artful flattery. Men are moft profound 5
v-'omen are more fublime.
“ Men moft embrace the whole ; women remark in¬
dividually, and take more delight in felefling the mi-
03 ] SEX
nutiae which form the whole. Man hears the burfling
thunder, views the deflruflive bolt with ferene afpeft, u
and Hands erefl amidft the fearful majefty of the ftream-
ing clouds. Woman trembles at the lightning, and the
voice of diftant thunder 5 and {brinks into herfelf or
finks into the arms of man. Man receives a ray of light
Angle, woman delights to view it through a prifm in all
its dazzling colours. She contemplates the rainbow as
the promile of peace ; he extends his inquiring eye over
' the whole horizon. Woman laughs, man fmiles ; wo¬
man weeps, man remains filent. Woman is in anguifti
when man weeps, and in defpair when man is in anguifti;
yet has fhe often more faith than man. Man without
religion, is a difeafed creature, who would perfuade him-
felf he is well, and needs not a phyfician j but woman
without religion, is raging and monftrous. A woman
with a beard is not fo difgufting as a woman who afls
the freethinker ; her fex is formed to piety and religion ;
to them Chrift firft appeared ; but he was obliged to
prevent them from too ardently, and too haftily, em¬
bracing him : ‘ Touch me not.’ They are prompt to
receive and ieize novelty, and become its enthufiafts.
The whole world is forgotten in the emotion caufed by
the prefence and proximity of him they love. They
fink into the mofl incurable melancholy, as they alfo
rife to the moft enraptured heights.
“ Male fenfation is more imagination, female more
heart. When communicative, they are more communi¬
cative than man ; when fecret, more fecret. In gene¬
ral they are more patient, long-fuffering, credulous, be¬
nevolent, and modeft. Woman is not a foundation on
which to build. She is the gold, filver, precious ftones,
wood, hay, ftubble (1 Cor. iii. 1 2.) ; the materials for
building on the male foundation. She is the leaven, or
more expreflively the oil to the vinegar of man : the fe~
cond part of the book of man.
“ Man ftngiy is but half man j at leaft but half hu¬
man •, a king without a kingdom. Woman, who feels
properly what (he is, whether ftill or in motion, refts
upon the man } nor is man what he may and ought to
be, but in conjun&ion with woman \ therefore, ‘ it is
not good that man fliould be alone, but that he flrould
leave father and mother, and cleave to his wife, and
they two fliall be one flefli.”
They differ alfo in their exterior form and appear¬
ance.
“ Man is the moft firm ; woman the mofl flexible.
Man is the ftraighteft ; woman the moft bending. Man
{lands ftedfaft : woman gently retreats. Man furveys
and obferves; woman glances and feels. Man is fe-
rious •, woman is gay. Man is the tailed: and broadeft;
woman the fmalieft and weakeft. Man is rough and
hard; woman fmooth and loft. Man is brown; wo¬
man is fair. Man is wrinkly ; woman is not. The
hair of man is more ftrong and fliort ; of woman more
long and pliant.- The eyebrows of man are compreffed ;
of woman lei's frowning. Man has moft convex Hires ;
woman moft concave. Man has moft ftraight lines ;
woman moft curved. The countenance of man taken
in profile is more feldom perpendicular tnan that ol the
woman. Man is moft angular ; woman moft round.”
In determining the comparative merit of tire tvr0 c
fexes, it is no derogation from female excellency that it^'^
differs in kind from that which diftinguiftres the male^
part of our fpecies : and if, in general, it ftrould be
C c 2 found
^ E X [ 204 ] SEX
found (whit upon an impartial inquiry will moll cer-
“ tainly be found) that women fill up their appointed
circle of aclioa with greater regularity than men, the
claim of preference cannot jaftly be decided in our fa¬
vour. In the prudential and economical parts of life,
it is undeniable that they rile far above us : and if true
fortitude of mind is belt dilcovered by a cheerful rtfig-
nalion to the meafures of Providence, we (hall not find
leafoil, perhaps, to claim that moil lingular of the hu¬
man virtues as our peculiar privilege. There are num¬
bers of the other fex who, from the natural delicacy of
their conllitution, pafs through one continued feene of
fufFering from their cradles to their graves, with a firm-
nefs of refutation that would deferve fo many ilatues to
be ereified to their memories, if heroifm were not efteem-
ed more by the fplendor than the merit of aiflions.
But whatever real difference there may be between
the moral or intelleflual powers of the male and fe¬
male mind, Nature does not feem to have marked the
diftinftion fo ilrongly as our vanity is willing to ima¬
gine •, and after all, perhaps, education will be found to
conllitute the principal fuperiority. It mult be acknow¬
ledged, at leall, that in this article we have every ad¬
vantage over the fofter fex that art and induftry can
pofijbly fecure to us. The moft animating examples
of Greece and Rome are fet before us, as early as we
are capable of any obfervation ; and the noblell cotnpo-
fitions of the ancients are given into our hands almoft
as foon as we have firength to hold them 5 while the
employments of the other fex, at the fame period of
life, are generally the reverie of every thing that can
open and enlarge their minds, or fill them with juft and
rational notions. The truth of it is, female education
is fo much worfe than none, as it is better to leave the
mind to its natural arid uninltruifted fuggeftions, than
to lead it into falfe purfuits, and contract its views, by
turning them upon the lowed and moft trilling objedls.
We feem, indeed, by the manner in which we fuffer the
youth of that fex to be trained, to confider women
agreeably to the opinion of certain Mahometan doctors,
and treat them as if we believed they had no fouls: why
clfe are they
v Bred only, and completed to the tafle
Of luilful appetence, to ling, to dance,
To drefs, and troul the tongue, and roll the eye.
Milton.
This ft range negleft of cultivating the female mind
can hardly be allowed as good policy, when it is con-
fidered how much the intererl of feciety is concerned in
the rectitude of their underftandings. That feafon of
every man’s life which is moll fufceptible of the ftrong-
eft impreffions, is neceffarily under female direction ; as
there are few inflances, perhaps, in which that fex is
not one of the fecret fprings which regulates the mofl
important movements of private or public tranfadlions.
What Cato obferves of his countrymen is in one refpedl
true of every nation under the fun : “ The Romans
(faid he) govern the world, but it is the women that
govern the Romans.”
If it be true then (as true beyond all peradventure it
is) that female influence is thus extenfive, nothino- cer¬
tainly can be of more importance than to give it a pro¬
per tendency, by the afliflance of a Well-diredled edu¬
cation. Far are we from recommending any attempts
to render women learned ; yet furely it is neceffary they Sex
fhould be railed above ignorance. Such a general tine- il
ture of the moil ufeful iciences as may ferve to free the ^est'us*
mmd rrom vulgar prejudices, and give it a relifh for the ~
rational exerche ol its powers, might very jullly enter
into a plan or female erudition. That lex might be
taught to turn the courle of their refleftions into a pro¬
per and advantageous channel, without any danger of
rendering them too elevated for the feminine duties of
life. In a word, they ought to be conlidered as defign-
ed by Providence for ufe as well as {how, and trained
up, not only as women, but as rational creatures.
S'EX of Be es. See Bee.
Sex of Plants. See Botany Index.
SEXAGENARY, fomething relating to the num¬
ber fixty : thus fexagenary or fexagefimal arithmetic is
a method of computation proceeding by fixties j fuch is
tnat ufed in the divifion of a degree into fixty minutes,
of the minute into fixty feconds, of the fecond into fixty
thirds, &c. Alfo fexagenary tables are tables of pro¬
portional parts, (bowing the product of two iexagenaries
that are to be multiplied, or the quotient of the two
that are to be divided.
SEXAGESIMA, the fecond Sunday before Lent,-
or the next to Shrove-Sunday 5 io called as being about
the 60th day before Eaiier.
SEXAGESIMALS, or Sexagesimal. Fraclions,
fractions whole denominators proceed in a fexagecuple
ratio ; that is, a prime, or the firit minute —; a fe¬
cond = t'S'Vo' ? a third = tt^ooo- Anciently, there
were no other than fexagefimais uied in aflronomy ; and
they are frill retained in many cafes, though decimal
arithmetic begins to grow in dfe now in aflronomical
calculations. In thefe fra&ions, which fome call nfro-
nomicalfraShons, the denominator being always 60, or
a multiple thereof, is ufually omitted, and the numera¬
tor only written down : thus 40, 59/ 32", 50"', 16
is to be read, 4 degrees, 59 minutes, 32 feconds, 50
thirds, 16 fourths, &.c.
SEXTANS, Sextant, afixth part of certain things.
The Rom ans having divided their as into 1 2 ounces or
uncia, the fixth part of that, or two ounces, was the
fexlans —Sextans was alfo a meafure which contained
two ounces of liquor, or two cyathi.
Sextans, in /IJlronomy, a conflellation of the
fouthern hemifphere, made by Helvelius out of unformed
liars. In Hevelius’s catalogue it contains 11, but in the
Britannic catalogue 41 liars.
SEXTANT, in Mathematics, denotes the fixth part
of a circle, or an arch comprehending 60 degrees.
The word fextant is more particularly ufed for an
afironomical inllrument made like a quadrant, except¬
ing that its limb only comprehends 60 degrees. The
ufe and application of the fextant is the fame with that
of the quadrant. See Quadrant; and Navigation,
p. 699, &c.
SEXTTLE, Sextilis, the pofition or afpeft of two
planets when at 60 degrees dillance, or at the diftance
of two figns from one another. It is marked thus (*).
See Aspect.
SEXTIUS, Quintus, a Pythagorean pbilofopher,
flouriihed in the time of Augullus. He feemed formed
to rife in the republic ; but he Ihrunk from civil ho¬
nours, and declined accepting the rank of fenator when
it was offered him by Julius Cgefar, that he might have
sex r
time to apply to philofophy. It appears that he willied
)S to eltablith a fchool at Rome, and that his tenets, though
— c’nefly drawn from the doarines of Pythagoras, in fome
particulars refembled thofe of the Stoics.
lie foon found himfelf involved in many difficulties.
His laws were tinaured, with great feverity •, and in an
early period of this eftabliffiment, he found his mind fo
haratTed, and the harffinefs of the doarines which hb
widied to eftabliffi fo repulfive to his feelings, that he
had nearly worked himfell up to fuch an height of def-
peralion as to relolve on putting a period to his ex-
iflence.
. Of the fchool of Sextius were Fabianus, Sotion, Fla-
vianus, Craflitius, and Celfus. Of his works only a
few fragments remain ; and whether any of them form¬
ed a part of the work which Seneca admired fo much,
cannot now be determined. ^Some of his maxims are
valuable. Fie recommended an examination of the ac¬
tions or the day to his fcholars when they retired to
red ; he taught, that the road to heaven (^adq/lra) was
by frugality, temperance, and fortitude. He ui'ed to
recommend holding a looking glafs before perfons difor-
dered with paffion. Fie enjoined his fcholars to abftain
from animal food.
SEXTON, .a church-officer, thus called by corrup¬
tion of the Latin//cry?*, or Saxon figerjlone, which de¬
notes the fame. His office is to take care of the veffels,
veftments, &c. belonging to the church ; and to attend
tae minifter, church-warden, &c. at church. Fie is
ufually chofcn by the parfon only. Sextons, as well as
panda clerks, are regarded by the common law as per¬
sons who have freehold in their offices ; and, therefore,
though they may be puniffied, yet they cannot be de¬
prived, by ecclefiaftical cenfures.
Jhe office of fexton in the pope’s chapel is appro¬
priated to the order of the hermits of St Auguftine.
He is generally a birtrop, though foinetimes the pope
only gives a biffiopric, in partibus, to him on whom he
confers the noft. He takes the title of Prefeci of the
Pope's Sacrify, and has the keeping the veffels of gold
and diver, the relics, &c. When the pope fays mafs,
the fexton always tafies the bread and wine fir 11. If it
be in private he fays mafs, his holinefs, of two wafers
gives him one to eat ; and, if in public, the cardinal’
who affilfs the pope in quality of deacon, of three wa-
fers, gives him one to eat. When the pope is delperately
fick.^ he adminiflers to him the facrament of extreme
Un&ion, &c. and enters the conclave in quality of fir ft
conclavift.
I iie ofii e of a fexton in Sweden is fometimes fingu-
lar. ^ During M. Outhier’s ftay at Stockholm in 1736
ie villted the church of St Clara, and during divine fer-
viccjhe obferved a fexton going about with a long rod
waking thofe perfons xvho had fallen afleep.
1 I UPLE, in Mufic, denotes a mixed fort of tri-
Pie^ which is beaten in double time.
SEX L US EMrrRTcu5, a famous Pyrrhonian philo-
fopher, lived in tbe fecond century, under the reign of
Antoninus the Debonair. He was a pbyfician of the
feel of the Empirics, and is faid to have been one of the
preceptors of Antoninus the philofopher. There are
fill extant his Pvrrhonian Inftitutions, and a large work
agamft the mathematicians, &c. The belt edition of
Sextus Empiricus is that of Fabricius in Greek and La-
fiiij printed at Leiplic in 1718, folio.
05 ] S F O
SEXUAL IST/F,, among botanical writers, thofe Sexuallftae
who have eltablilhed the claffes of plants upon the dif- „ II
Lrences of the fexes and parts of irudlification in plants, , ^^orza’ ,
according to the modern method j as Linnaeus, &c. -V—11
SjcZAWUL, a Hindoo word, ufed in Bengal to
exprels an officer employed at a monthly falary to col-
ledl the revenues.
SFORZA, James, was the founder of the illuftri-
ous houfe of Slorza, which adled fo confpicuous a part in
Italy during the 15th and 16th centuries, which gave fix
dukes to Milan, and contradled alliances with almoft eve¬
ry Sovereign in Europe. James Sforza was born on the
28 th of May 1369, at Catignola, a fmall town in Italy,
lying between Imola and Faenza. Flis father was a
day labourer, or, according to Commines, a flroemaker.
A company of ioldiers happening one day to pals
through Catignola, he was leized with the defire of ac¬
companying them to the wars. “ I will go (faid he to
hnnjelf), and dart my hatchet againft that tree, and if
it dick fall in the wood, I will immediately become a
foldier.” The hatchet accordingly (luck fall, and our
adventurer enlifted; and becaufe, fays the Abbe de Choifi,
he haa thrown the axe with all his force, he affumed the
name of Sforza ; for his true name was Giacomuzzo, or
James Attendulo, He rofe rapidly in the army, and
foon became commander of 7000 men. He defended
timcaufeoi Jane II. queen of Naples for many years,
and was made conftable of her kingdom. He was cre¬
ated Count of Catignola by Pope John XXII. by way
of paying a debt of 14000 ducats which the church of
Rome owed him. Flis exploits became every day more
illuftrious : He obliged Alphonfo king of Arragon to
raife the fiege of Naples1; and reduced feveral places
tnat had revolted in Abruzzo and Le Labour ; but while
in purfuit of his enemies he was unfortunately drowned
in the river Aterno on the 3d January 1424, at the
age of 54 years. His heroic qualities, and the continual
ais in which he was engaged, did not prevent him from
forming an attachment to the fair fex. In his youth he
feil in love with a woman called Lucia Ticzana, whom
he married alter the had born him feveral children. He
married afterwards Antoinette Salembini, who brought
him feveral excellent eftates; ftie bore him Bofio Sfor-
■^a, compte ol Santa-Flor, a warrior and governor of
Orvietta for Pope Martin V. His third wife was Ca¬
tharine Alopo, fifter of Rodolpho, grand chamberlain to
the fovereign of Naples. Flis laft wife, for he was feur
times married, was Mary Marzana, daughter to the
duke of Seffa. She bore him Charles Sforza, who way
general of the order of Auguftines, and. archbiftiop of
Milan.
Sfgrza, Francis, the fon of James Sforza by
Lucia Frezana, was born in 1401, and trained up by
Ins father to the profefllon of arms. At the age of
23 he defeated the troops of Braccio, who difputed
with him the paffage of the Aterno. In this aftion
his father was drowned, and Francis, though illegiti¬
mate, fuccecded him. He fought fuccefsfully againft
the Spaniards, and contributed a great deal both towards
railing, the fiege of Naples, and to the viflory which
was gained ever the troops of Braccio near Aquila in
1425, where that general was killed. After the death
of Queen Jane, in 1435, he efpoufed the interefts of
the duke, of Anjou, to whom fhe had left her crown,
and by his courage and abilities ably fupported that un-,
fortunate
Sforza
li
Shadow.
S H A [2
fortunate prince. He made himfelf mailer of feveral
places in Ancona, from which he was driven by Pope
, Eugenios IV. who defeated and excommunicated him ;
but he foon re-eftabliihed his affairs by a victory. His re¬
putation was now fo great, that the pope, the Venetians,
and the Florentines, chofe him for their general againft
the duke of Milan. Sforza had already conduced Ve¬
netian armies againfl that prince, though he had efpou-
fed his daughter. The duke dying in ^ie inha¬
bitants of Milan invited Sforza, his fon-in-law, to iead
them againft that duke. But, after fonre exertions in
their favour, he turned his arms againft them.elves, laid
fiege to Milan, and obliged them to receive him as
duke, notwithftanding the rights of Charles duke of Or¬
leans, the fon of Valentine of Milan, In 146^, Corn's
XI. who hated Orleans, gave up to Sforza the rights
which the crown of I ranee had over Genoa, and even
put into his hands Savona, a town belonging to that re¬
public. The duke of Milan foon after maoe himlelf
mafter of Genoa. He died in 1466, with the reputa¬
tion of a man w
■ho was willing to fell his blood to ths
beft purchnfer, and who was not too fcrupulous an ob
ferver of his word. His fecond wife was Blanche
Marie, natural daughter of Philip Marie duke of Mi¬
lan. She bore him Galeas Marie, and Ludovic Mane,
dukes of Milan, Philip Marie count of Pavia, Sforza
Marie duke of Bari, Afcagne Marie bifhop of Pavia
and Cremona, and a cardinal. He was taken pnfoner
by the troops of Louis XII. and confined for fome time
in the tower of Bourges. He was a cunning man, and
deceived Cardinal d’Amboife when that prelate afpired
at the papacy. His daughters were Hyppolita, married
to Alphonfo of Arragon, afterwards king of Naples j
and Elizabeth, married to William marquis of Mont-
ferrat. He had beftdes feveral natural, children.
' SHACK, in ancient cuftoms, a liberty of winter-
pafturage. In the counties of Norfolk and Suffolk, the
lord of the manor has {hack, i. e. a liberty .of feeding
his fheep at pleafure in his tenants lands during the fix
winter months. In Norfolk, fhack alfo extends to the
common for hogs, in all men’s grounds, from the end of
harveft till feed-time. Whence to go a-Jhack, is to feed
at large. . , - .,
SHACKLES, aboard a fhip, are thofe oblong iron
rings, bigger at one end than at the other, with which
the ports are (hut faft, by thrufting the wooden bar of
the port through them. There is alfo a fort of (hackles
io lift the hatches up with, of a like figure, but fmaller.
They are faftened at the corners of the hatches.
SHAD, a fpecies of Clupea. See Ichthyology In¬
dex. , c . c
SHADDOCK, a fpecies of Citrus, the fruit ot
which is of a very large fize, and of a very grateful
tafte. In the Weft Indies it is eaten after dinner to
give a zeft to the wine. ...
SHADOW, in Optics, a privation or diminution of
light, by the interpoftiion of an opaque body ; or it is
a plane where the light is either altogether obftruaed,
or greatly weakened, by'the interpofition of feme
opaque body between it and the luminary.
Shadow, in Painting, an imitation of a real ftiadow,
effeaed bv gradually heightening and darkening the co¬
lours of fiich figures as by their difpofitions cannot re-
ceive any direft rays from the luminary that is fuppoicd
,10 enlighten the piece.
06 ] S H A
Shadow, in PerfpeBive, the appearance of an opaque ShaJoW,
body, and a luminous one, whole rays diverge (e. gr. a ,
candle, lamp, &c.), being given ; to find the jfiit ap¬
pearance of the ihadow, according to the laws ot per-
fpeftive. The method is this : From the luminous bo¬
dy, which is here confidered as a point, let fall a per¬
pendicular to the perlpe&ive plane or table ; i. e. find
Ihe appearance of a point upon which a perpendicular,
drawn from the middle of the luminary, falls on the per-
fpedhve plane ■, and from the feveral angles, or 1 ailed
points of the body, let fall perpendiculars to Lne plane.
Thefe points, whereon the perpendiculars fall, conned!
by right lines, with the point upon which the perpen¬
dicular let fall from the luminary falls j and continue
the lines to the fide oppofite to the luminary. Laltly,
through the raifed points draw lines through the centre ,
of the luminary, interfedling the former} the points or
interfeftion are the terms or bounds of the ftiadow.
SHADOWS, Coloured, a curious phenomenon in
optics, which was oblerved by Profeffor Scheriter ot ^ i-
enna, and afterwards by Count Rumtord, who made the
dilcovery while profecutmg his experiments on light.
“ Defirous,” fays the count, “ of comparing the in-
tenfity of the light of a clear olue fky by aay with that
of a common wax candle, I darkened my room, and
letting the day-light from the north, coming through a
hole near the top of the wundow-fhutter, fall at an an¬
gle of about 70° upon a fheet of very fine white paper, I
placed a burning wax candle m fuch a pofiiion tn..^ its
rays fell upon the fame paper, and, as near as I could
guefs, in the line of refleftion of the rays of day-light
from without •, when, interpofing a cylinder of wood,
about half an inch in diameter, before the centre of the
paper, and at the diftance of about 2 inches from its
furface, I was much furprifed to find that the two fha-
dows projedled bv the cylinder upon the paper, in-
ftead of being merely fhades without colour, as I ex-
pe&ed; the one of them, that , which, correfponding
with the beam of day-light, was illuminated by the can¬
dle, was yellow ; wTile the other, correfponding to the
light of the candle, and confequently illuminated by the
light of the heavens, was of the moft beautiful blue that
it' is poflible to imagine. This appearance, which was not
only unexpended, but wras really in itfelf in the higheft
degree ftriking and beautiful, I found upon repeaLed
trials, and after varying the experiment in every way I
could think of, to be fo perfeaiy permanent, that it is
abfolutely impoflible to produce two fhadows at the
fame time, from the fame body, the one anfwering to a
beam of day-light, and the other to the light of a can¬
dle or lamp, without thofe ftiadows being coloured, the
one yellow.’, and the other blue.
Jf the candle be brought nearer to the paper, the
blue ftiadow will become of a deeper hue, and the yel¬
low ftiadow will gradually growr fainter ; but if it be re¬
moved farther off, the yellow fhade will become ot a
deeper colour, and the blue ftiade will become fainter j
and' the candle remaining ftationary in the fame place, the
fame varieties in the ftrength of the tints of the colour¬
ed ftiadows may be produced merely by opening the
window fhutter a little more or lefs, and rendering the
illumination of the paper, by the light from without,
ftronger or weaker. By either of thefe means, the co¬
loured ftiadov.’S may be made to pafs through all the gra¬
dations of fhade, from the deepeft to the lighteft, and
4
S H A [ 2
Shadows vice verfa ; and it is not a little amufing to fee fhadovvs
c !lr thus glowing with all the brilliancy of the puretd and
, Sh^ias'.moft intenfe prifmatic colours, then palling fuddenly
through all the varieties of lhade, preferving in all the
molt perfect purity of tint, growing ftronger and faint-
* Phi!. er> ang vaniihing and returning, at command
'1 ranf. The count is clearly of opinion, that the caufes of the
colours of thefe (hadows arife from the dilferent qualities
of the light by which they are illuminated ; but he does
not think it lb evident how they are produced. Perhaps
it may be faid, however, that all the phenomena of co¬
loured lhadows which the count enumerates may be ac¬
counted for by the theory of Profeffor Scherffer.
SHADWELL, Thomas, defcended of an ancient
family in Staffordlhire, was born in 1640, and educated
at Cains college, Cambridge. He then was placed in
the Middle Temple to ftudy the laws ; where having
fpent fome time, he travelled abroad. Upon his return
home, he became acquainted with the molt celebrated
perfons of wit in that age. He applied himfelf chiefly
to dramatic writing, in which he had great fuccefs 5 and
upon the revolution was made poet laureat and hifto-
riographer to King William and Queen Mary, in the
room of Mr Dryden. Thefe employments he enjoyed till
las death, which happened in 1692. Eefide his drama¬
tic writings, he compofed feveral other pieces of poetry ;
the chief of which are his congratulatory poem on the
prince of Orange’s coming to England ; another on
Queen Mary ; his tranflation of Juvenal’s 10th fatire,
&c. Mr Dryden treafs him with great contempt, in
his fatire called Mac-F/ecno. The belt judges of that
age, however, gave their telfimony in favour of his co-
raedies 5 which have in them fine ftrokes of humour ;
the characters are often original, ftrcngly marked, and
well fufta’ned. An edition of his works, with fome
account of his life and writings prefixed, was publiflied
in 1 7 20, in 4 vols 8vo.
SHAFRAS, or Suffras, Gregory Savarof, an
Armenian merchant, remarkable only as the perfon who
fold the large and celebrated diamond which is now fet
in the imperial fceptre of Ruflia. Shah Nadir, an Indian
prince, had two principal diamonds in his throne, one of
them denominated the St/n of the Sea, and the other the
Moon of the Mountain. When that prince was affaffinat-
ed, many precious ornaments belonging to the crown were
pillaged, and privately difpofed of by the foldiers who
fliared the plunder. See Diamond, under Minera¬
logy, where the account given of this diamond is
fomewhat dilferent. -
Shafras, who was called Milllonjhik at Aftracan, then
had his refidence at Balfora, with two of his brothers.
A chief of the Avganians one day applied to him, and
prepefed to fell the diamond already mentioned for a
very moderate furn (probably the Moon of the Moun¬
tain), together with a very large emerald, a ruby of
confiJerable fize, and other precious Hones of lefs value.
Shafras was aftonithed at the ofrer •, and giving out that
he had not a fuflicient fum to purchafe them, he re-
quelled time to confult with his brothers on the fub-
je£l. The vender did not again make his ap eam.nce,
probably from fufpicious motives. Shatras, with the ap¬
probation of his brothers, went diredfly in fearch of the
It ranger with the jewels, but by that time he had left
Balfora. Shafras, however, accidentally met him at
Bagdad, and paid him 50,000 piaflres (8958I. 6s. 8d.)
07 J S H A
for all his jewels. Shafras and his brothers being well Shafras
aware that the moil; profound fecrecy was abfolutely ne- ,
celfary, refolved to remain at Balfora. ^naje^iry
At the expiration of 12 years, Shafras fet off with
the larged of the jewels, dire&ing his route through
Sham and Conftantinople, and afterwards through Hun¬
gary and Silefia to the city of Amilerdam by land,
where he publicly offered them for fale.
It is reported that the Britiih government was among
the bidders. The Ruffian court fent for the large dia¬
mond, with an offer to reimburfe all reafonable expen-
ces, if the price could not be agreed on. When the dia¬
mond arrived, Count Panin, the Ruffian minider, made
the following offer to Shafras. Beddes the patent of
hereditary nobility, which the vender demanded, he
was to receive an annual penfion of 6000 rubles during
life, 500,000 rubles in cafh (1 12,500!. Sterling), one-
fifth of which was to be payable on demand, and the
remainder by indalments in the courfe of ten years. He
alfo claimed the order of nobility for his brothers, per-
fiding fo obdinately in his demands, that the diamond
was returned.
Shafras was now very much perplexed. He had in¬
volved himfelf in expences, was forced to pay intered
for confiderable firms of borrowed money, and he faw no
profpetd of felling the jewel to advantage. The nego-
ciation was recommenced with Rudia by Count Gre¬
gory Grigorievilfh Orlof, afterwards created a prince
of the empire; and the diamond was purchafed for
450,000 rubles (105,250!.) ready, money, together
with a grant of Ruffian nobility. We are informed that
120,000 rubles (27,000!.), fell to the {hare of the ne-
gociators, for commidion, intered, and fimilar expences.
Shafras fettled at Ailracan ; and his riches, which by
inheritance devolved to his daughters, have been in a
great mealure diffipated by the extravagance of his fons-
xn law.
SHAFT of a Column, in Building, is the body
thereof between the bale and capital ; fo called from its
draightnefs. See Architecture.
Shaft, in mining, is the pit or hollow entrance into
the mine. In the tin mines, after this is funk about a
fathom, they leave a little, long, fquare place, which is
called a fhavible.
Shafts are funk fome ten, fbme twenty fathoms deep
into the earth, more or lefs. Of thefe drafts, there is
the landing or working draft, where they bring up the
work or ore to the fur face ; but if it be worked by a
horfe engine or whim, it is called a whim jhaft; and
where the water is drawn out of the mine, it is indif¬
ferently named an engineJhaft, or the rod-fkaft. See
P>I INK.
Shaft. See Trochilus, Ornithology Index.
SHAFTESBURY, a town of Dorletfhire in Eng¬
land, in W. Long. 2. 20. N. Lat. 51. c. It Hands on
a high hill, and is built in the form of a bow. It en¬
joys a ferene wholefonae air, and has a fine profpeft. It
is a good thoroughfare, is governed by a mayor, and
fends two members to parliament. This town is fup-
pofed to have been built in the 8th century, and to have
been enlarged by King Alfred; and had 12 churches, be-
fides a Benedictine monadery, in the time of the Saxons,
but has now only three. St Edward the martyr was
buried here. It had three mints before the corqued,
and, in the reign of Henry VIII. was the fee of a fuf-
fragnrj
S H A [ 2c
Shan, fbury fragan bifliop. It was incorporated by Oueen Elizabeth
Shagreen. and Charles and is governed by a mayor, recorder,
' 1 twelve aldermen, bailiffs, and a common-council. It
contains about 320 houfes, many of which are of
free-ftone. Water is fo fcarce, that it ufed to be
fupplied from Motcomb ; but it was obtained more
commodioufly in 1718, by means of engines, which
raifed the water above 300 feet perpendicular, and
conveyed it to a large ciftern in the middle of the
town, from the diflance of two miles. Yet even this is
laid afide, and they have dug feveral pits, in which they
preferve the rain-water •, and the poor get their living
to this day by fetching it in pails or on horfes. It
gives the title of earl to the noble family of Cooper.
Shaftesbury, Earl of. See Cooper.
SHAG. See Pelicanus, Ornithology Index.
SHAGREEN, or Chagreen, in Commerce^ a kind
of grained leather prepared of the Ikin of a fpecies
of Squalus, and much ufed in covering cafes, books,
&c.
The beft is that brought from Conftantinople, of a
brownilh colour •, the white is the worft. It is ex¬
tremely hard ; yet, when ffeeped in water, it becomes
very foft and pliable ; whence it is of great ufe among
cafe-makers. It takes any colour that is given it, red,
green, yellow, or black. It is frequently counterfeit¬
ed by morocco, formed like fhagreen 5 but this lad is
diftinguilhed by its peeling off, which the firit does
not.
The following is the method of preparing fliagreen,
as it is deftribed by Profeffor Pallas.
“ All kinds of horfes or affes fkins, which have been
drtfled in fuch a manner as to appear grained, are, by
the Tartars, called fcuwer, by the Perfians fog re > and
by the Turks fagri, from which the Europeans have
made fhagreen or chagrin. The Tartars who re fide at
Aflracan, with a few of the Armenians of that citv,
are the only people in the Ruffian empire acquainted
with the art of making fliagreen. Thofe who follow
this occupation not only gain confiderable profit by the
fale of their production to the Tartars of Cuban, Aflra¬
can, and Cafan, who ornament with it their Turkey
leather boots, flippers, and other articles made of lea¬
ther, but they derive confiderable advantage from the
great fale of horfes hides, which have undergone no
other procefs than that of being feraped clean, and of
which feveral thoufands are annually exported, at the
rate of from 75 to 85 roubles per hundred, to Perfia,
where there is a fcarcity of fuch hides, and from which
the greater part of the fhagreen manufactured in that
country is prepared. The hind part only of the hidej
however, which is cut cut. in the form of a crefcent
about a Ruffian ell and a half in length acrofs the loins,
and a fhort ell in breadth along the back, can properly
be employed for fhagreen. The remaining part, as is
proved by experience, is improper for that purpofe, and
is therefore rejected.
“ The preparation of the fkins, after being cut into
the above form, is as follows :—They are depofited in
a tub filled with pure water, and buffered to remain
there for feyeral days, till they are thoroughly foaked,
and the hair has dropped off. They are then taken
from the tub, one by one, extended on boards placed
in an oblique dire&ion againft a wall, the corners of
8] S H A
them, which reach beyond tire edges of the board, be- Shagreen.-
ing made faff, and the hair with the epideimis is then v—'—-
feraped off with a blunt iron feraper called urah. TLe
fkins thus cleaned are again put in pure water to foak.
\\ iien ah the fkrns have undergone this Dart of the pro-
ctfi, they are laRe^r from the water a fecond tune,
fpread out one after the other as before, and the fiefh
tr ie is feraped with the fame kind of inftrument. They
are carefully cleaned alio on the hair fide, fo that no¬
thing remains but the pure fibrous tiffue, which ferves
for making parchment, confiding of coats of white me¬
dullary fibres, and which has a refemblance to a fwine’s
bladder foftened in water.
Aker this preparation, the workmen take a cer¬
tain kind of frames called pd/%i^ made of a firaight and
a icmicircmar piece of wood, having nearly tire fame
form as the fkins. On lliefe the fkins are extended in
as fmooth and even a manner as poffible by means of
cords; and during the operation of extending them,'
they are feveral times bcfprinkled with water, that no
part of them may be dry, and occafion an unequal ten-
fion. After they nave been all extended on the frames,
they are again moiftened, and carried into the houfe,
where the frames are depofited clofe to each other on
the floor with the flefli fide of the fkin next the ground.
The upper fide is then thickly beftrewed with the
black exceedingly fmooth and hard feeds of a kind of
goefe foot (chenopodium albumf which tire Tartars call
alabuta, and which grows in abundance, to about the
height of a man, near the gardens and farms on the
fouth fide of the Volga ; and that they may make a
firong impreffion on the fkins, a piece of felt is fpread
over them, and the feeds are trod down with the feet,
by which means they are deeply imprinted into the
foft fknrs. The frames, without fhaking the feeds, are
then carried out into the open air, and placed in a re¬
clining prfition againft a wall to dry, the fide covered
with the feeds being next the wall, in order that it may
be ftieltered from tire fun. In this ftale the fkins muff
be left feveral days to dry in the fun, until no appear¬
ance of moifture is obferved in them, when they are fit
to be taken from the frames. When the impreffed feeds
are beat off fiom the hair fide, it appears full of inden¬
tations or inequalities, and has acquired that impreffion
which is to produce the grain of the (hagreen, after the
flans have been fubjedled to the laft fmoothing or fera-
pmg, and have been dipped in a ley, which will be men¬
tioned hereafter, before they recene the dye.
u Rhe operation of fmoothing is performed on an in¬
clined bench or board, which is furnifhed with an iron
hook, and is covered with thick felt of fheep’s wool,
on which the dry fkin may gently reft. The fkin is
fufpended in ti e middle of the bench or board to its
iron bock, by means of one of the holes made in the
edge of the fkin for extending it in its frame as before
mentioned ; and a cord, having at its extremity a ftone
or a weight, is attached to each end of the fkin, to
keep it in its pofition while under the hands of the
workman. It is then fubje&ed to the operation of
fmoothing and feraping by means of two different rn-
ftruments. The firft ufed for this purpofe, called by
the Tartars tokar, is a piece of fharp iron bent like a
hook, with which the furface of the fhagreen is pretty
clofeiy feraped to reinove all the proje<fting inequalities.
This
3
s H A [ 209 1 s H A
Shagreen. This operation, on account of the corneous hardnefs of
^ ' the dry /kin, is attended with fome difficulty 5 and
great caution is at the fame time required that too
much of the impreffion of the alabuta feed be not de-
Itroyed, which might be the cale if the iron were kept
too (harp. As the iron, however, is pretty blunt, which
occafions inequalities on the fliagreen, this inconvenience
mull: afterwards be remedied by means of a (harp fcra-
ping iron or urak, by which the furface acquires a per-
fe6t uniformity, and only faint impreffions of the alabuta
feed then remain, and fuch as the workman wiffies. Af¬
ter all thefe operations, the fhagreen is again put into
water, partly to make it pliable, and partly to raife the
grain. As the feeds occafion indentations on the fur-
face of the fkin, the intermediate fpaces, by the opera¬
tions of fmoothing and fcraping, lofe fome part of their
projefling fubltance •, but the points which have been
deprefled, and which have loft none of their fubftance,
now fwell up above the fcraped parts, and thus form the
grain of the fhagreen. To produce this effedft, the fkins
are left to foak in water for 24 hours; after which they
are immerfed feveral times in a ftrong warm ley, ob¬
tained, by boiling, from a ftrong alkaline earth named
fchora, which is found in great abundance in the neigh¬
bourhood of Aftracan. When the fkins have been ta¬
ken from this ley, they' are piled up, while warm, on
each other, and fuffered to remain in that ftate feveral
hours $ by which means they fwell, and become foft.
They are then left 24 hours in a moderately ftrong
pickle of common fait, which renders them exceedingly
white and beautiful, and fit for receiving any colour.
The colour moft ufual for thefe fkins is a fea-green $
but old experienced workmen can dye them blue, red,
or black, and even make white fhagreen.
“ For the green colour nothing isneceffary but filings
of copper and fal ammoniac. Sal ammoniac is diftblved
in water till the water is completely faturated ; and the
fhagreen fkins, ftill mcift, after being taken from the
pickle, are waffied over with the folution on the un¬
grained flefh fide, and when well moiftened a thick lay¬
er of copper filings is ftrewed over them : the fkins are
then folded double, fo that the fide covered with the
filings is innermoft. Each fkin is then rolled up in a
piece of felt; the rolls are all ranged together in proper
order, and they are preffed down in an uniform manner
by fome heavy bodies placed over them, under which
they remain 24 hours. During that period, the folu¬
tion of fal ammoniac dilfolves a quantity of the cu¬
preous particles fufficient to penetrate the fkin, and
to give it a fea-green colour. If the firft application
be not fufficient, the procefs is repeated in the fame
manner; after which the fkins are fpread out and
dried.
“ For the blue dye, indigo is ufed. About two
pounds of it, reduced to a fine powder, are put into a
kettle ; cold water is poured over it, and the mixture
is ftirred round till the colour begins to be dilfolved.
Five pounds of pounded a/akar, which is a kind of
barilla or crude foda, prepared by the Armenians and
Calmucs, is then diflblved in it, with two pounds of
lime and a pound of pure honey, and the whole is kept
feveral days in the fun, and during that time frequently
ftirred round. The fkins intended to be dyed blue muft
be moiftened only in the natrons ley fchora. but not in
Vol. XIX. Part I.
the fait brine. When ftill moift, they are folded up
and fewed together at the edge, the flefh fide being in¬
nermoft, and the fhagreened hair fide outwards; "after
which they are dipped three times in the remains of an
exhauiled kettle of tne fame dye, the fuperfluous dye
being each time exprelfed } and after this procefs they
are dipped in the frefh dye prepared as above, which
muft not be exprelTed. JL he fkins are then bung up m
the ffiade to dry 5 after which they are cleaned and
paired at the edges.
“ For black fliagreen, gall nuts and vitriol are em¬
ployed in the following manner :—The Ikins, moift from
the pickle, are thickly beftrewed with finely pulverized
gall nuts. They are then folded together, and laid over-
each other for 24 hours. A new ley, of bitter faline
earth orfckora, is in the mean time prepared, and pour¬
ed hot. into fmall troughs. In this ley each Ikin is fe¬
veral times dipped ; after which they are again beftrew¬
ed with pounded gall nuts, and placed in heaps for a
certain period, that the galls may thoroughly penetrate
them, and they are dried and beat, to free them from
the duft of the galls. V/hen this is done, they are
rubbed over, on the fhagreen fide, with melted fheep’s
tallow, and expofed a little in the fun, that they may
imbibe the greafe. The fhagreen makers are accufto-
med alfo to roll up each fkin feparately, and to prefs or
fqueeze it with their hands againft fome hard fubftance,
in order to promote the abforption of the tallow. The
fuperfluous particles are removed by means of a blunt
wooden feraper (urc.c) ; and when this procefs is finifh-
ed, and the fkins have lain fome time, a lufficient quan¬
tity of vitriol of iron is diffolved in water, with which
the ffiagreen is moiftened on both fides, and by this
operation it acquires a beautiful black dye. It is then
drefled at the edges, and in other places where there
are any blemithes.
“ To obtain white fliagreen, the fkins muft firft be
moiftened on the fhagreen fide with a ftrong folution
of alum. When the fkin has imbibed this liquor, it is
daubed over on both fides with a pafte made of flour,
which is fuffered to dry. The pafte is then waffied off
with alum water, and the fkin is placed in the fun till
it is completely dry. As foon as it is dry, it is gently
befmeared with pure melted fheep’s tallow, which it is
fuffered to imbibe in the fun ; and to promote the ef-
fe£I, it is preffed and worked with the hands. The
fkins are then faftened in fucceffion to the before-men¬
tioned bench, where warm water is poured over them,
and the fuperfluous fat is fcraped off with a blunt wood¬
en inftrument. In the laft operation the warm water
is of great fervice. In this manner ffiagreen perfe&ly
white is obtained, and nothing remains but to pare the
edges and drefs it.
“ But this white fhagreen is not intended fo much
for remaining in that ftate, as for receiving a dark red
dye ; becaufe, by the above previous procefs, the co¬
lour becomes much more perfedt. The fkins deftined
for a red colour muft not be immerfed firft in ley of
bitter fait earth (fchora), and then in pickle, but after
they have been whitened, muft be left to foak in the
pickle for 24 hours. 1 he dye is prepared from cochi¬
neal, which the Tartars call klrmit%. About a pound
of the dried herb tfehagann, which grows in great abun¬
dance in the neighbourhood of Aftracan, and is a kind
D d «£
S H A f 21
Shagreen of foda plant or kali (falfola erlcoides') (a), is boiled a
hour in a kettle containing about four comraon
f)eare. pailfuls of water j by which means the water acquires a
y—... greeniflr colour. The herb is then taken out, and about
half a pound of pounded cochineal is put into the kettle,
and the liquor is left to boil a full hour, care being ta¬
ken to dir it that it may not run over. About 15 or
20 drams of a fubdance which the dyers call liiter (or-
chilla) is added, and when the liquor has been boiled
for fome time longer, the kettle is removed from the
fire. The fkins taken from the pickle are then placed
over each other in troughs, and the dye-liquor is pour-
ed over them four different times, and rubbed into them
with the hands, that the colour may be equally imbibed
and diffufed. The liquor each time is expreffed ; after
which they are fit for being dried. Skins prepared in
this manner are fold at a much dearer rate than any of
the other kinds.”
SHAIK properly fignifies an old man. In the enft
it is ufed to denote a lord or chief, a man of eminence
and property. See Schiechs.
SHAKE, in finging. See Trill.
SHAKESPEARE or Shakspeare, William, the
prince of dramatic writers, was born at Stratford upon
Avon in Warwicklhire, on the 23d of April 1564.
From the regiiler of that town, it appears that a
plague broke out there on the 30th of June following,
which raged with great violence ; but fortunately it
did not reach the houfe in which this infant prodigy
lay. His father, John Shakefpeare, enjoyed a fmall
patrimonial eftate, and was a confioerable dealer in
wool 5 his mother was the daughter and heir of Robert
Arden of Wellingcote. Our illuftrious poet being de-
figned for the bulinefs of his father, received no better-
education than the inftru&ions which the free-fehool
of Stratford could afford. After applying fome time
to the ftudy of Latin, he was called home to alufl his
father, who feems by fome accident to have been redu¬
ced in his circumftances. Before arriving at the age
of 19, he married the daughter of Mr Hathaway, a
fubftantial yeoman in the neighbourhood of Stratford.
This lady was eight years older than her liufband.
Having the misfortune to fall into bad company, he
was feduced into fome profligate actions, which drew
on him a criminal profecution, and at length forced
him to take refuge in the capital. In concert with
h's affociates, he broke into a park belonging to Sir
Thomas Lucy of Charlecoie. and carried off fome of
his deer. Every admirer of Shakefpeare -will regret
that fuch a blemifh fliould have ftained his chara&er;
but, perhaps, if any thing can extenuate his guilt, we
might aferibe it to the opinions of the age, which, per¬
haps, as was formerly the cafe in Scotland, might not
diftinguifh the killing of deer by any mark of difgrace,
or any charge of criminality. One thing at leaf! is
certain, that Shakefpeare himfelf thought that the pro¬
fecution which Sir Thomas raifed againft him was car¬
ried on with too great feverity j an opinion which he
> } S H A
could not have entertained had this adtion been at that SL;i,
time viewed in the fame criminal light as it is at prefent. fyea-
Shakefpeare leftified his refentment againft Sir Thomas,
by writing a fatirical ballad, which exafperated him fo
much, that the procefs was carried on with redoubled
violence j and the young poet, in order to avoid the
puniflnnent of the law, was obliged to make his efcape.
This ballad would be confidered as a curious relick, on
account of its being the firlt produftion of Shakefpeare j
it w'ould alfo be interefting to peruie a poem which could
irritate the baronet to io high a degree. Tradition has
preferved the firft ftanza :
A parliamente member, a juftice of peace,
At home a poor fcarc-crow, at London an affe.
If lowfie is Lucy, as fome volke mifcalle it,
Then Lucy is lowfie whatever befall it:
He thinks himfelf greate,
Vet an affe in his Rate,
We allowe by his ears, but with affes to mate.
If Lucy is lowfie, as fome volke mifcalle it,
Sing lowfie Lucy whatever befall it.
If the reft of the ballad was of a piece with this ftan¬
za, it might aftift us to form fome opinion of the inita-
bility of the baronet, but will enable us to form no idea
of the opening genius of Shakefpeare.
Thus expelled from his native village, he repaired io
London, where he was glad to accept a fuboidinate of¬
fice in the theatre. It has been faid that he w'as firft
engaged, while the play was aifting, in holding the horfes
of thofe whp rode to the theatre but this itory refts
on a {lender foundation. As his name is found print¬
ed among thofe of the other players before fome old
plays, it is probable that he was fome time employed
as an aftor j but we are not informed what charadfers
he played 5 wre are only told, that the part which he
acted belt was that of the Ghoft in Hamlet; and that
he appeared in the charadter of Adam in As you /ike
it. If the names of the adtors prefixed to Ben Jonfon’s
play of Every Man in Ins Humour were arranged in the
fame order as the peifons reprefented, which is very pro¬
bable, Shakefpeare played the part of Old Knowell,
We have reafon therefore to fuppofe, as far as we can
argue from thefe few fadts, that he generally reprefented
old men. See Malone’s Chronology, in his edition of
Shakefpeare.
But though he was not qualified to ftiine as an ac¬
tor, he was now in the fituation which could moft ef-
fedfually roufe thofe latent fparks of genius which af¬
terwards burft forth with fo refplendent a flame. Be¬
ing well acquainted with the mechanical bufinefs of the
theatre and the tafte of the times; poffeffed of a know¬
ledge of the cbaradlers of men refembling intuition, an
imagination that ranged at large through nature, fe-
ledling the grand, the fublime, and the beautiful j a ju¬
dicious caution, that difpofed him to prefer thofe plots
which had already been found to pleafe ; an uncommon
fluency
(a) The beautiful red Turkey leather is dyed with cochineal prepared in the fame manner.^ Profeffor Gme-
lin junior, in the flcond part of his Travels through Ruftia, explains the herb tfcliagar.n by artemifia having
doubtlefs been deceived by the appearance the plant acquires after it has been dried. Befides, this artemijia is found
only in the middle of Siberia, and never on the w7eft fide of the Irtifch.
S H A [ 2
Shake- fluency and force of expreflion •, he was qualified at once
ipeare. to ec]ipfe all who had gone before him.
" Notwithftanding the unrivalled genius of Shake-
fpeare, moil of his plots were the invention of others;
which, however, he certainly much improved, if he did
not entirely new-model. We are affured, that prior to
the theatrical compofitions of Shakefpeare, dramatic
pieces were written on the following fubjedts, viz.
King John, King Richard II. and III. King Henry IV.
and V. King Henry VIII. King Lear, Antony and
Cleopatra, Meafure for Meafure, the Merchant of
Venice, the Taming of a Shrew, and the Comedy of
Errors-
Among his patrons, the earl of Southampton is par¬
ticularly honoured by him, in the dedication of two
poems, Venus and Adonis, and Lucrece ; in the latter
efpecially, he expreffed himfelf in fuch terms as gives
countenance to what is related of that patron’s di-
ftinguilhed generofity to him. In the beginning of
King James I.’s reign (if not fooner) he was one of
the principal managers of the playhoufe, and conti¬
nued in it feveral years afterwards} till, having ac¬
quired fuch a fortune as fatisfied his moderate wifhes
and views in life, he quitted the ftage, and all other
bufinefs, and palled the remainder of his time in an ho¬
nourable eafe, at his native town of Stratford, where he
lived in a handforne houfe of his own purchafing, to
which he gave the name ol New Place; and he had
the good fortune to fave it from the flames in the dread¬
ful fire that confumed the greateft part of the town in
16x4.
In the beginning of the year 1616, he made his
will, wherein he teftified his refpeft to his quondam
partners in the theatre : he appointed his youngefl:
daughter, jointly with her hufband, his executors, and
bequeathed to them the bed part of his eftate, which
they came into the poffeffion of not long after. He
died on the 23d of April following, being the 53d year
of his age ; and was interred among his anceftors on
the north fide of the chancel, in the great church of
Stratford, where there is a handfome monument eredled
for him, infcribed with the following elegiac diftich in
Latin :
Judicio Pylium, genio Socratem, arte Maroncm,
Terra tegit, Populus jiueret, Olympus habet.
In the year 1740, another very noble one was raifed to
his memory, at the public expence, in Weftminfter ab¬
bey ; an ample contribution for this purpofe being made
upon exhibiting his tragedy of Julius Csefar, at the
theatre-royal in Drury-Lane, April 28th 173^’
. Nor muft we omit mentioning another teftimony of
the veneration paid to his manes by the public in gene¬
ral, which is, that a mulberry-tree planted upon his
eilate by the hands of this revered bard, was cut down
not many years ago ; and tbe wood being converted to
feveral domefiic ufes, was all eagerly bought at a high
price, and each fingle piece treafured up by its purcha-
fer as a precious memorial of the planter.
The chamber of Shakefpeare as a dramatic writer
Has been often drawn, but perhaps never with more ac-
curacv than by the pen of Dr Johnfon : “ Shakefpeare
(fays he) is above all writers, at leaf!; above all modern
writers, the poet of nature •, the poet that holds up to
his readers a faithful mirror of manners and of life.
I ] S H A
His characters are not modified by the cufloms of par- $
ticular places, unpraftifed by the retl of the world j by h
the peculiarities of ftudies or profeffions, which can
operate but upon Imall numbers; or by the accidents
of tranfient falhions or temporary opinions: they are the
genuine progeny of common humanity, fuch as the
world will always fupply, and obfervation will always
find. His perfons adl and fpeak by the influence of
thofe general paffions and principles by which all minds
are agitated, and the whole fylfem of life is continued
in motion. In the writings of other poets, a charadler
is too often an individual; in thofe of Shakefpeare, it is
commonly a fpecies.
“ It is from this wide extenfion of defign that fo
much inftrudtion is derived. It is this which fills the
plays of Shakefpeare with piadfical axioms and domef-
tic wifdom. It was faid of Euripides, that every verfe
was a precept •, and it may be laid of Shakefpeare, that
from his works may be colledled a fyflem of civil and
economical prudence. Yet his real power is not fhown
in the fplendor of particular pafl’ages, but by the pro-
grefs of his fable, and the tenor of his dialogue ; and he
that tries to recommend him by feledl quotations, will
fucceed like the pedant in Hierocles, who, when he of¬
fered his houfe to fale, carried a brick in his pocket as a
fpecimen.
“ Upon every other flage the univerfal agent is love,
by whofe power all good and evil is diftributed, and
every adlion quickened or retarded. But love is only
one of many pafilons ; and as it has no great influence
upon the fum of life, it has little operation in the dra¬
mas of a poet who caught his ideas from the living
world, and exhibited only what he faw before him. He
knew that any other paflion, as it was regular or exor¬
bitant, was a caufe of happinefs or calamity.
“ Charadlers thus ample and general were not eafily
difcriminated and preferved •, yet perhaps no poet ever
kept his perfonages more diftindl from each other.
“ Other dramatifls can only gain attention by hyper¬
bolical or aggravated characters, by fabulous and unex¬
ampled excellence or depravity, as the writers of bar¬
barous romances invigorated the reader by a giant and
a dwarf j and he that fiiould form his expeftations of
human affairs from the play, or from the tale, would
be equally deceived. Shakefpeare has no heroes, his
fcenes are occupied only by men, who a<t and fpeak as
the reader thinks that he (hould himfelf have fpoken
or afted on the fame occafion : Even where the agency
is fupernatufal, the dialogue is level with life. Other
writers difguife the mofl natural pafilons and moft fre¬
quent incidents; fo that he who contemplates them in
the book will not know them in the world: Shake¬
fpeare approximates the remote, and familiarizes the
wonderful ; the event which he reprefents will not hap¬
pen. but if it were pofiible, its effedls would probably
be fuch as he has afllgned ; and it may be faid, that he
has not only fiiown human nature as it adls in real exi¬
gencies, but as it would be found in trials to which it
cannot be expofed.
“ This therefore is the praife of Shakefpeare, that
his drama is the mirror of life ; that he who has mazed
his imagination, in following the phantoms which other
writers raife up before him, may here be- cured of his
delirious ecftafies, by reading human fentiments in hu¬
man language : by fcenes from which a hermit may efli-
D d 2 mate
/
S H A [2
^±' ™ale the tranfaflions of the world, and a confeflbr pre-
j-' '_j dift the progrefs of the paffions.”
Ihe learning of Shakefpeare has frequently been a
iobject of inquiry, ihat he pofieffed much claHical
knowledge does not appear, yet he was certainly ac¬
quainted with the Latin poets, particularly with Te¬
rence, as Colman has juftly remarked, which appears
irom his ufing tlie rvord thrafonical. Nor was he un¬
acquainted with French and Italian. We are indeed
told, that, the pallages in which thefe languages occur
rmght be impertinent additions of the players; but is it
piobable, that any of the players fo far lurpaffed Shake-
Ipeare ?
That much knowledge is fcattered over his works is
very juftly obferved by Pope; but it is often fuch
knowledge as books d;d not fupply. “ There is, how-
ever, proof enough (fays Dr Johnfon) that he was a
very diligent reader ; nor was our language then fo
indigent of books, but that he might very liberally in-
tlulge his curiofity without excurfion into foreign "lite¬
rature. Many of the Roman authors rvere tranllated,
and fome of the Greek ; the Reformation had filled the
kingdom with theological learning ; moft of the topics
of human difquifition had found Englifh waiters; and
poetry had been cultivated, not only wfith diligence,
but fuccefs. i his was a flock of knowledge fufficient
for a mind fo capable of appropriating and improving
I he works of Shakefpeare confift of 35 dramatic
pieces. The following is the chronological order w'hich
Mr Malone has endeavoured to eftablith, after a minute
i.nveftigation, in which he has in general been fuccefs-
ful :
x. Firft Part of King He nry VI.
2. Second Part of King Henry VI.
3. Third Part of King Henry VI.
4. A Midfummer Night’s Dream
5. Comedy of Errors
6. Taming of the Shrew
7. Love’s Labour Loft
8. I wo Gentlemen of Verona
9. Romeo and Juliet
3 c. Hamlet
11. King John
12. King Richard II.
13. King Richard III.
14. Firft Part of King Henry IV.
15. Second Part of King Henry IV.
36. The Merchant of Venice
17. All’s Well that Ends Well
18. King Henry V.
19. Much Ado about Nothing
20. As you like it
21. Merry Wives of Windfor
22. King Henry VIII.
23. Troilus and Creflida
24. Meafure for Meafure
25. The Winter’s Tale
26. King Lear
27. Cymbelline
28. Macbeth
29. Julius Coefar
30. Antony and Cleopatra
31. Timon of Athens
32. CoriQk\nus
I59l
!592
JS93
1594
*594
J595
1595
1596
*596
1597
*597
*597
J598
J598
1598
*599
1600
1600
1601
1601
1602
1603
1604
1605
1605
1606
1607
1608
1609
1610
12] S II A
33. Othello - - 1611
34-The Tempeft - . j6i2
35. Twelfth Night - . 1614
I he firft three of thefe, Mr Malone thinks, there is
very ftrong rcafon to believe are not the original pro¬
ductions ot Shakefpeare ; but that he probably altered
them, and added fome new fcenes.
In the firft folio edition in 1623, thefe plays were en¬
titled ‘‘ Mr William Shakefpeare’s Comedies, Hiftories,
and I ragedies.” They have been publifhed by various
editors. I he firft folio edition by Ifaac Jaggard and
Edward Blount ; the fecond, folio, 1632, by Thomas
Cotes for Robert Allot ; the third, 1664, for P. C.;
the fourth, 1685, for H. Herringman, E. Brewfter,
and R. Bentley. Rowe publifhed an 8vo edition in
1709,■ in 7 vols, and a i2mo edition in *714, in 9 vols;
for which he received 36I. 10s. Pope publilhed a 4to
edition in 1725, in 6 vols, and a i2mo in J728, in
10 vols; for which he was paid 217I. 12s. Theobald
gave a new edition in 8vo in 1733, in 7 vols, another
in 1 2mo in 1740) in 8 vols; and received for his la¬
bour 652I. Ios. Sir Thomas Hanmer publilhed an edi¬
tion in I744» 6 vols 410. Dr Warburton’s 8vo
edition came out in 1747, in 8 vols; for which he was
paid 560I. The editions publilhed fince that time, are
Dr John Ton’s in 1765, in 8 vols 8vo. Stevens’s in
1766, in 4 vols 8vo. Capell’s in 1768, in 10 vols,
crown 8vo; for this the author was paid 300I. A fe¬
cond edition of Hanmer’s in 1771, 6 vols. Johnfon’s
and Stevens’s in 1773, 'm 10 vols 8v0 i a fecond edi¬
tion in 1778 ; a third by Reed in 1785 ; and Malone’s
crown 8vo edition in 1789, in 10 vols.
The moft authentic of the old editions is that of
1623. “ At laft (fays Dr Johnfon) an edition was
undertaken by Rowe ; not becaufe a poet was to be
publifhed by a poet, for Rowe feems to have thought
very little on correftion or explanation, but that our
author’s works might appear like thofe of his fraterni¬
ty, with the appendages of a life and recommendatory
preface. Rowe has been clamoroully blamed for not
performing what he did not undertake ; and it is time
that juftice be done him, by confefling, that though he
feems to have had no thought of corruption beyond the
printer’s errors, yet he has made many emendations, if
they were not made before, which his fuccefibrs have
received without acknowledgment, and which, if they
had produced them, would have filled pages with cen-
fures of the ftupidity by which the faults were com¬
mitted, with difplays of the abfurdities which they in¬
volved, with oftentatious expofitions of the new reading,
and felf-congratulations on the happinefs of difeovering
The nation had been for many years content enough,
with Mr Roive’sperformance, when Mr Pope made them,
acquainted with the true ft-ate of Shakefpeare’s text,lhow-
ed that it was extremely corrupt, and gave reafon to hope
that there were means of reforming it. Mr Pope’s edi¬
tion, however, he obferves, fell below his own expecta¬
tions ; and he was fo much offended, when he was found
to have left any thing for others to do, that he paffed the
latter part of his life in a ftate of hoftility with verbal
criticifm.
The only talk, in the opinion of Mr Malone, for
which Pope was eminently and indifputably qualified,
was
Shake-
fpeaie.
S H A
S'.rtke. ivas to mark the faults and beauties of his author 
>=jeare- When he undertook the oflice of a commentator, every
anomaly of language, and every exprefiion that was cur-
rently in ufe, were confidered as errors or corruptions,
and the text was altered or amended, as it w^as called, at
pleafure. Pope is openly charged with being one of the
great corrupters of Shakefpeare’s text.
Pope was fucceeded by Theobald, who collated the
ancient copies, and rectified many errors. He w-as,
however, a man of narrow comprehenfion and of little
learning, and what is worfe, in his reports of copies and
editions, he is not to be truifed without examination.
From the liberties taken by Pope, the edition of Theo¬
bald was jultly preferred, becaufe he profeffed to adhere
to the ancient copies more ftridfly, and illuitrated a few’
paffages by extrafts from the writers of our poet’s
age. Still, however, he was a confiderable innovator j
and whue a few arbitrary changes made by Pope were
deteffcd, innumerable fophitfications were lilently a-
dopted.
Sir Thomas Hanmer, who comes next, was a man of
critical abilities, and of extenfive learning. His correc¬
tions are commonly juft, but fometimes capricious. He
is cenfurable, too, for receiving without examination al-
moft all the innovations of Pope.
The original and predominant error of Warburton’s
commentary, is acquiefcence in his firft thoughts j that
precipitation which is produced by confcioufnefs of
quick difcernment j and that confidence which prefumes
to do, by furveying the furface, what labour only can
perform, by penetrating to the bottom. His notes ex¬
hibit fometimes perverfe interpretations, and fometimes
improbable conjeftures j he at one time gives the author
more profundity of meaning than the fentence admits,
and at another difcovers abfurdities where the fenfe is
plain to every o*ker reader. But his emendations are
iikewife often happy and juft ; and his interpretation of
obfcure pafl'tges learned and fagacious.
It has indeed been (aid by his defenders, that his great
objeift; was to difplay his owm learning ; and certainly, in
fpite of the clamour raifed againft him for fubftituting his
own chimerical conceits inftead of the genuine text of
Shakefpeare, his wrork increafed his reputation. But as
it is of little value as a commentary on Shakefpeare, fince
Warburton is now gone, his work will probably foon fink
into oblivion.
In 1765 Dr Johnfon’s edition, which had long been
impatiently expe&ed, avas given to the public. His vi¬
gorous and comprehenfive underftanding threw more
light on his author than all his predecefibrs had done.
The chara&er which he gave of each play is generally
juft. His refutation of the falfe glofies of Theobald and
Warburton, and his numerous explications of involved
and difficult paffages, entitle him to the gratitude of eve¬
ry admirer of Shakefpeare.
The laft editor is Mr Malone, who was eight years
employed in preparing his edition. By collating the
moft authentic copies, he has been careful to purify the
text. He has been fo induftrious, in order to difcover
the meaning of the author, that he has ranfacked many
volumes, and trufts that, befides his additional illuftra-
tions, not a fingle valuable explication of any obfcure
paftage in thefe plays has ever appeared, which he has
not inferted in his edition. He rejefts Titus Andro-
riicus, as well as the three plays formerly mentioned, as
s H A
not being the authentic productions of Shakefpeare. To Stake;
the whole he has added an appendix, and a copious glof- ih)eare
fary.—Of this w’ork a lefs expenfive edition has been pub- s]jaJ,ar!S
liihed in 7 vols 1 2mo, in w'hich the general introduClory 1 t— -
obfervations prefixed to the different plays are preferved,
and the numerous notes abridged.
This judicious commentator has certainly done more
for the elucidation and covreftion of Shakefpeare than all
who came before him, and has followed with indefati¬
gable patience the only road which a commentator of
Shakefpeare ought to obferve.
Within 50 years after our poet’s death, Dryden fays
that he was become “ a little obfolete j” and in the be¬
ginning of the 18th century Lord Shaftefbury complains
of his rude unpoliflied ftyle, and his antiquated phrafe
and wit. Thefe complaints were owing to the great re¬
volution which the Englifh language has undergone, and
to the want of an enlightened commentator. Thefe
complaints are now removed, for an enlightened com¬
mentator has been found in Mr Malone.
We have only farther to add, that in the year 1790
a copious index to the remarkable paflages and words
in the plays of Shakefpeare was publifhed by the Re¬
verend Mr Ayfcough; a gentleman to whom the lite¬
rary world is much indebted for feveral very valuable
keys of knowledge. In fine, the admirers of Shake¬
fpeare are now, by the labours of feveral eminent men,
furnifhed with every help that can enable them to under-
ftand the fenfe and to tafte the beauties of this illuftrious
poet.
SHAKLES. See Shackles.
SHALE, in Mineralogy, a kind of Schistus, of
a black colour and flaty ftruCture, or a clay hardened
into a ftony confiftence, and fo much impregnated with
bitumen that it becomes fomewhat like a coal. The
acid emitted from ihale, during its calcination, uniting
itfelf to the argillaceous earth of the fhale, forms alum.
About x 20 tons of calcined fhale will make one ton
of alum. The fhale, after being calcined, is fteeped
in water, by which means the alum, which is formed
during the calcination of the finale, is diflblved : this
diflblved alum undergoes various operations before it
is formed into the alum of the fhops. Watfon’s Che¬
mical Effays, vol. ii. p. 315.. See Alum, Chemistry
Index.
This kind of flate forms large ftrata in Derbyfhire $
and that which lies near the furface of the earth is of a
fofter and more fhivery texture than that which lies
deeper. It is alfo found in large firata, generally above
the coal, in moft coal counties of this kingdom.
SHALLOP, Shalloop, or Sloop, is a fmall light
veflel, with only a fmall main-maft and fore-maft, and
lug-fails, to haul up, and let down, on occafion.—Shal¬
lops are commonly good failers, and are therefore often
ufed as tenders upon men of war.
SHALLOT, or Eschalot. See Allium, Bota¬
ny and Gardening Index.
SHAMANS are wizards or conjurers, in high re¬
pute among feveral idolatrous nations inhabiting dif¬
ferent parts of Ruffia. By their enchantments they
pretend to cure difeafes, to divert misfortunes, and to *
foretel futurity. They are great obfervers of dreams,
by the interpretation of which they judge of their good
or bad fortune. They pretend like wife to chiromancy,
and to foretel a man’s good or ill fuccefs by the lines of.
hi$*>
r 213 1
S H A [ 21
Shamble', liis hand. By thefe and fuch like means tliey have a
Shamois. very great alcendancy over the under Handings, and a
' " ~v great influence on the condudl, of thofe people.
SHAMBLES, among miners, a fort of niches or
landing places, left at fuch diftances in the adits of the
mines, that the fhovel-men may conveniently throw up
the ore from fhamble to fhamble, till it comes to the top
of the mine.
SHAMOIS, Chamois, or Shammy, a kind of lea¬
ther, either dreffed in oil or tanned, much efteemed for
its foftnefs, pliancy, &c. It is prepared from the fkin
of the chamois, or fhamois, a kind of rupicapra, or wild
goat, called alfo ifard, inhabiting the mountains of Dau-
phiny, Savoy, Piedmont, and the Pyrenees. Befides the
foftneis and warmth of the leather, it has the faculty of
bearing foap without damage j which renders it very ufe-
ful on many accounts.
In France, &c. fome wear the fkin raw, without any
preparation. Shammy leather is ufed for the purifying of
mercury, which is done by paffing it through the pores of
this fkin, which are very clofe. The true chamois lea¬
ther is counterfeited with common goat, kid, and even
with fheep {kins, the pradlice of which makes a particu¬
lar profeftion, called by the French chamoifure. The
laff, though the leafl eflcemed, is yet fo popular, and
fuch vafl quantities of it are prepared, efpecially about
Orleans, Marfeilles, and Tholoufe, that it may be proper
to give the method of preparation.
Manner ofJhamoifng, or of preparing fbeep, goat, or
hid [kins in oil, in imitation of Jhamtny.— The fkins, being
waffled, drained, and fmeared over with quicklime on the
flefhy fide, are folded in two le'ngthwife, the wool out¬
wards, and laid in heaps, and fo left to ferment eight
days, or, if they had been left to dry after flaying, then
fifteen days.
Then they are waflied cut, drained, and half dried ;
laid on a wooden leg, or horfe, the wool dripped off with
a round daff for that purpofe, and laid in a weak pit, the
lime whereof had been ufed before, and has led the great-
ed part of its force.
After 24 hours they are taken out, and left to drain
24 more •, they are then put in another dronger pit.
This done, they are taken cut, drained, and put in
again, by turns; which begins to difpefe them to take
oil ; and this praftice they continue for fix weeks in
fummer, or three months in winter : at the end where¬
of they are walked out, laid on the wooden leg, and the
furface of the fk:n on the wool fide peeled off, to render
them the fofter 5 then made into parcels, fleeped anight
in the river, in winter more, dretched fix or feven over
one another on the wooden leg, and the knife paffed
flrongly on the dedi fide, to take off any thing fuper-
fluous, and lender the fkin fmooth. Then they are
deeped, as before, in the river, and the fame operation
is repeated on the wool fide *, they are then thrown into
a tub of w^ater, with bran in it, which is breuTed among
the fkins till the greateft part flicks to them, and then
feparated into diflindl tubs, till they (’well, and rife of
themfelves above the water. By this means the re¬
mains of the lime are cleared out; they are then wrung
out, hung up to dry on ropes, and fent to the mill, with
the quantity of oil neceffary to fcour them : the bed oil
is that of dock-fifh. Here they are firft thrown in
bundles into the river for 12 hours, then laid m the
mill-trough, and fulled without oil till they be well foft-
2
4 ] S II A
ened j then oiled wth the hand, one by one, and thus Sliamcls
formed into parcels of four fkins each ; which are mill- ^ li ^
ed and dried on cords a (econd time ; then a third ; and
then oiled again, and dried. This procefs is repeated
as often as neceffity requires ; when done, if there be
any moidure remaining, they are dried in a Hove, and
made up into parcels wrapped up in wool 5 alter feme
time they are opened to the air, but wrapped up again
as before, till fuch time as the oil feems to have loft all
its lorce, which it ordinarily does in 24 hours. The
fkins are then returned from the mill to the chamoifer
to be fcoured •, which is done by putting them in a lixi¬
vium of rvood-afhes, working and beating them in it with
poles, and leaving them to fteep till the ley hath had
its effcdl ; then they are wrung out, fteeped in another
lixivium, wrung again ; and this is repeated till all the
greafe and oil be purged out. When this is done, they
are half dried, and paffed over a (harp-edged ironinftru-
ment, placed perpendicular in a block, which opens,
foftens, and makes them gentle. Laftly, they are tho¬
roughly dried, and paffed over the fame inftrument
again ; which finithes the preparation, and leaves them
in form of lhammy.
Kid and goat (kins are fhamoifed in the fame manner
as thofe of Iheep, excepting that the hair is taken off
without the ufe of any lime ; and that when brought
from the mill they undergo a particular preparation
called ramal/ing, the moft delicate and difficult of all the
others. It conftils in this, that, as foon as brought from
the mill, they are fteeped in a fit lixivium, taken out,
ftretched on a round wooden leg, and the hair is feraped
off with the knife •, this makes them Imooth, and in
working to call a kind of fine knap. The difficulty is
in feraping them evenly.
SHANK, or SHANK-Pa inter, in a (hip, is a fliort
chain faftened under the foremaft-fliroTids, by a bolt, to
the ffiip’s fides, having at the other end a rope faftened
to it. On this fhank-painter the whole weight of the
aft part of the anchor refts, when it lies by the {hip’s fide.
The rope, by which it is hauled up, is made fall about a
timber head.
Shank, in the manege, that part of a horfe’s fore leg
which lies between the knee and the fetlock.
SHANKER, or Chancre, in Medicine, a malignant
ulcer, ufually occafioned by force venereal diforder. See
Medicine, N° 350.
SHANNON, the largeft river in Ireland, and one
of the fineft in the Britifh dominions, not only on
account of its rolling 2CO miles, but alfo of its great
‘depth in moft places, and the gentlenefs of its current,
by which it might be made exceedingly ferviceable to
the improvement of the country, the communication of
its inhabitants, and confequently the promoting of inland
trade, through the greateft part of its long.courfe.
But the peculiar prerogative of the Shannon is its fitu-
ation, running from north to fouth, and feparating the
province of Connaught from Leinfter and Munfter, and
of confequence dividing the greateft part of Ireland in.
to what lies on the eaft and that on the weft of the ri¬
ver ; watering in ils paffage the valuable county of
Leitrim, the plentiful {hire of Rofcommon, the fruitful
county of Galrvay, and the pleafant county of Clare 5
the fmall but fine {hire of Longford, the King’s coun¬
ty, and fertile county of Meath in Leinfter, the popu¬
lous county of Tipperary, the fpacious {hire of Lime-
S H A [2
Shanfci it rick, and the rough but pleafant county of Kerry in
ii Munder j vifiting 10 counties in its paflage, and having
')- on its banks the following remarkable places, viz. Lei¬
trim, Jameftown, Lanefborough, Athlone, Clonfert,
Killaloe, and Limerick ^ at 20 leagues below the latter /
it fpreads gradually feveral miles in extent, fo that fome
have conlidered its expaniion as a lake. It at Lift joins
its waters to the fea, being navigable all that way for
the larged veiTels.
SHANSCRIT, the language of the Bramins of Hin-
doftan. See Philology, feet. v.
SHARE of a PLOUGH, that part which cuts the
ground ; the extremity forwards being covered with a
(harp-pointed iron, called the point of the Jhare, and the
end of the wood behind the tail of the Jhare.
SHARK. See Squalls, Ichthyology Index.
SHARON, a name common to three cantons of Pa-
lefdne. The firit lay between Mount Tabor and the fea
of Tiberias; the fecond between the city ot Ctefarea of
Paled in e, and Joppa ; and the third lay beyond Jordan.
To give an idea of perfect beauty, Ifaiah laid, the glory
of Lebanon and the beauty of Carmel mud be joined to
the abundance of Sharon. (Ifaiah xxxiii. 9. xxxi. 2.).
The plains of Sharon are of vad extent ; and, when
furveyed by the Abbe Mariti a few years ago, they were
(own with cucumbers; and he informs us, that fuch a
number is annually produced, as not only to fiippiy the
whole neighbourhood, but alfo all the coads of Cyprus
and the city of Damietta. In the middle of the plain,
between Arfus and Lydda, rifes a finall mountain, upon
the ridge of which there is a fmall village called Sharon,
from the name of the ancient city whole king was con¬
quered bv Jolhua.
SHARP, James, archbilhop of St Andrew’s, was
born of a good family in Banffshire in 16^8. He
devoted himfelf very early to the church, and was
educated for that purpofe in the univerlity of Aber¬
deen. When the folemn league and covenant was
framed in 1638, the learned men in that feminary, and
young Sharp in particular, declared themfelves decid¬
edly aga-inlt it. To avoid the infults and indignities to
which he was fubje£ted in confequence of this condudf,
he retired to England, where he contracted an acquain¬
tance with fome of the molt celebrated divines in that
country.
At the commencement of the civil wars he returned
to Scotland. During his journey thither, he acciden¬
tally met with Lord Oxenford, who was fo charmed
with his converfation, that he invited him to his houfe.
While he relided with that nobleman, he became known
to the earl of Rothes, who procured him a profefforlhip
at St Andrew’s. By the intereft of the earl of Craw¬
ford he was foon after appointed minifter of Crail;
where he conduftcd himfelf, it is faid, in an exemplary
manner.
Sharp had always inclined to the caufe of royalty,
and had for fome lime kept up a con-efpondence with
his exiled prince. After the death of the proteClor he
began to declare himfelf more openly, and feems to have
enjoyed a great lhare of the confidence of Monk, who
was at that time planning the redoration of Charles II.
When that general marched to London, the prelbyte-
rians fent Sharp to attend him in order to fupport
their interefts. At the requeft of General Monk and
the chief prefbyterians in Scotland, Mr Sharp was
si s h A
fent over to the king at Breda to procure from him, if Sharp.
poffible, the eftabliihment of prelbyterianifov On his ' v—
return, lie affured his friends that “ he had found the
king very affedhonate to Scotland, and refolved not to
wrong the fettled government of the church : but he ap¬
prehended they were miftaken who went about to eifa-
blilh the prelbyterian government.”
Charles was foon after reftored without any terms.
All the laws paffed in Scotland fince the year 1633 were
repealed ; the king and his numbers refolved at all ha¬
zards to rebore prelacy. Mr Sharp, who had been
commiffioned by the Scotch preibyterians to manage
their interebs with the king, was prevailed upon to aban¬
don the parly ; and, as a reward for his compliance, he-
was made archbilhop of St Andrew’s. This conduct
rendered him very odious in Scotland ; he was accufed
of treachery and perfidy, and reproached by his olfl
friends as a traitor and renegado. The abfurd and wan¬
ton cruelties which were afterwards committed, and
which were imputed in a great meafure to the archbidrop,
rendered him bill more detebed. Nor is it probable
that thefe accufations were without foundation : the very
circumbance of his having been formerly of the prefty-
terian party would induce him, after forfaking them, to
treat them with feverity. Befides, it is certain, that when
after the rout at Pentland-hills he received an order from
the king to bop the executions, he kept it for fome time
before he produced it to council.
There was one Mitchell a preacher, and a defperate
fanatic, who had formed the debgn of taking vengeance
for thefe cruelties by affabinating the archbibiop. Pie
fired a pibol at him as he was fitting in his coach ; but
the bibiop of Orkney, lifting up his hand at the moment,
intercepted the ball. Though this happened in the
midb of Edinburgh, the primate was fo much detebed,
that nobody bopped the affabin ; who, having walked
leifurely home, and thrown off his difguife, returned,
and mixed unfufpedted with the crowd. Some years
after, the archbifbop obferving a man eyeing him with
keennefs, fufpecled that he was the affaffin, and ordered
him to be brought before him. It was Mitchell. Two
loaded pibols were found in his pocket. The primate
offered him a pardon if he would confefs the crime ;
the man complied ; but Sharp, regardlefs of his promife,
condufted him to the council. The council alfo gave
him a folemn promife of pardon if he would confefs his
guilt, and difeover his accomplices. They were much
difappointed to hear that only one man was privy to his
purpofe, who was fince dead. Mitchell was then brought
before a court of jullice, and ordered to make a third
confebion, which he refufed. Pie was imprifoned for
feveral years, and then tried. His own confeffion was
urged againb him. It was in vain for him to plead the
illegality of that evidence, and to appeal to tbe promife
of pardon previouby given. The council took an oath
that they had given no fuch promife ; and Mitchell was
condemned. Lauderdale, who at that time governed
Scotland, would have pardoned him, but the primate in-
fibed on his excution ; obferving, that if afiaffins were
permitted to go uripunifhed, his life mub be continually
in danger. Mitchell was accordingly executed.
Sharp had a fervant, one Carmichael, who by his
cruelty had rendered himfelf particularly odious to the
zealots. Nine men formed the refolution of waylaying
him in Magus-moor, about three miles from St An¬
drew’s*.
S H A l 21
drevv’s. While they were waiting for this man, the
primate himfelf appeared with very few attendants,
This they looked upon as a declaration of heaven in
their favour 3 and calling out, “ the Lord has delivered
him into our hands,” they ran up to the carriage.
They fired at him without effeft 3 a circumftance
which was afterwards imputed to magic. They then
difpatched him with their fwords, regardlefs of the
tears and intreaties of his daughter, who accompani¬
ed him (a).
Thus fell Archbilhop Sharp, whofe memory is even
at prefent detefled by the common people of Scotland.
His abilities were certainly good, and in the early part
of his life he appears with honour and dignity. But
his conduft afterwards was too cruel and infincere to
merit approbation. His treatment of Mitchell was
mean and vindidlive. How far he contributed to the
meafures adopted againft the prelbyterians is not cer¬
tain. They were equally cruel and impolitic 3 nor did
their effe&s ceafe with the meafures themfelves. The
unheard-of cruelties exercifed by the minifters of Cha. II.
againft the adherents of the covenant, railed fuch a flame
of enthufiafm and bigotry as is not yet entirely extin-
"guiflied.
Sharp, Dr John, archbifhop of York, was defcend-
ed from the Sharps of Little Norton, a family of Brad¬
ford Dale in Yorklhire 3 and was fon of an eminent
tradefman of Bradford, where he w’as born in 1644.
He wras educated at Cambridge, and in 1667 entered
into orders. That fame year he became domeftic chap¬
lain to Sir Heneage Finch, then attorney-general. In
1672 he w7as collated to the archdeaconry of Berkfhire.
In 1675 he was inftalled a prebendary in the cathedral
church of Norwich 5 and the year following was infti-
tuted into the reflory of St Bartholomew near the
Royal Exchange, London. In 1681 he was, by the
intereft of his patron Sir Heneage Finch, then lord high
chancellor of England, made dean of Norwich 3 but in
1686 was fufpended for taking occafion, in fome of his
fermons, to vindicate the do&rine of the church of Eng¬
land in oppofition to Popery. In 1688 he wTas fworn
chaplain to King James II. being then probably reftored
after his fufpenfion for it is certain that he wras cha¬
plain to King Charles II. and attended as a court cha¬
plain at the coronation of King James II. In 1689 he
was declared dean of Canterbury 3 but never could be
perfuaded to fill up any of the vacancies made by the
deprived biftiops. Upon the death of Dr Lamplugh, he
was promoted to the fee of York. In 1702 he preach¬
ed the fermon at the coronation of Queen Anne 3 and
the fame year was fworn of the privy-council, and made
lord almoner to her majefty. He died at Bath in 1713 3
and w?as interred in the cathedral of York, where a mo¬
nument is ere&ed to his memory.—His fermons, which
6 ] S H A
wrere colle&ed after his death and publfthed in 7 vols
8vo, are juftly admired. ''
Sharp, Abraham, an eminent Englifti mathemati¬
cian, and aftronomer, was born at Little Horton, near
Bradford, in the year 1651. He was put apprentice
to a merchant at Manchefter 3 but fo ftrongly was he
inclined to the ftudy of mathematics, that he foon found
his fituation both irkfome and difagreeable. By the
mutual confent, therefore, of his mafter and himfelf, he
quitted the bufinefs of a merchant. He then removed
to Liverpool, where he wholly devoted himfelf to ma¬
thematical ftudies, and where, for a iubfiftencc, he taught
writing and accounts.
Soon after this a merchant from London, in whofe
houfe the celebrated Mr Flamfleed then lodged, enga¬
ged Mr Sharp to be his book-keeper. With this emi¬
nent aftronomer he foon contradfed an intimate friend-
ftiip, and by his recommendation he obtained a more pro¬
fitable employment in the dock-yard of Chatham, where
he continued till his friend and patron called him to
his afliftance. Mr Sharp was chiefly employed in
the conftru&ion of the mural arch, which he finifhed in
the courfe of 14 months fo entirely to the fatisfa£lion
of Mr Flamftecd, that he fpoke of him in terms of the
highefl praife. In the opinion of Mr Smeaton, this
w^as the firft good inftrument of the kind, and Mr Sharp
the firft artift who cut delicate divifions on alrronomi-
cal inftruments. When this inftrument was conftrudled,
Mr Sharp was but 25, and Mr Flamfteed 30 years of
age. Mr Sharp aflifted his friend in making a cata¬
logue of nearly 3000 fixed ftars, with their longitudes
and magnitudes, their right afcenfions and polar dift-
ances, with the variations of the fame while they
change their longitude by one degree.
But from the fatigue of conftantly obferving the
ftars by night, in a cold thin air, added to a weakly
conftitution, his health was much impaired 5 for the
recovery of wLich he requefted leave to retire to his
houfe at Horton, where, as foon as he felt himfelf re¬
covering, he began to fit up an obfervatory of his owm,
and the telefcopes he made ufe of were all of his own
conftruflion, and the lenfes ground and adjufted with
his owm hands.
It w?as about this time that he aftifted Mr Flamfteed
in calculating moft of the tables in the fecond volume of
his Hifloria Ccrlejlis, as appears by their letters, to be
fcen iu the hands of Mr Sharp’s friends at Horton.
The mathematician, fays Dr Hutton, meets with fome-
thing extraordinary in Sharp’s elaborate treatifc of Geo¬
metry Improved; by a large and accurate table of feg-
ments of circles, its conftruftion and various ufes in the
folution of feveral difficult problems, with compendious
tables for finding a true proportional part ; and their
ufe in thefe or any other tables exemplified in making
logarithms.
Slisrp-
(a) Such is the account given by all our hiftorians of the murder of Archbifhop Sharp 3 and that he fell by
the hands of fanatics, whom he perfecuted, is certain. A tradition, however, has been preferved in different fa¬
milies defcended from him, which may be mentioned, and is in itfelf certainly not incredible. The primate, it
feems, who, when minifter of Crail, wras peculiarly fevere in punilhing the fin of fornication, had, in the plenitude
of his archiepifcopal authority, taken notice of a criminal amour carried on between a nobleman high in office
and a lady of fome fafhion wffio lived within his diocefe. This interference was in that licentious age deemed very
impertinent 3 and the archbilhop’s defcendants believe that the proud peer inftigated the deluded rabble to muir-
lier their anceftor.
I
S H A
logarithms, or their natural numbers, to 60 places of fi¬
gures j there being a table of them for all primes to
1100, true to 61 figures. His concife treatife of Polye-
dra, or folid bodies of many bafes, both of the regular
ones and others ^ to which are added, 12 new ones,
with various methods of forming them, and their exaOl
dimenfions in furds or fpecies, and in numbers •, illuftra-
ted with a variety of copper-plates, neatly engraved by
his own hands. Indeed, few of the mathematical in-
ftrument makers could exceed him in exadly gra¬
duating or neatly engraving mathematical or aftiono-
mical inftruments. He poffeffed a remarkably clear
head for contriving, and an extraordinary hand for
executing any thing, not only in mechanics, but
likewife in drawing, waiting, and making the molt
beautiful figures in all his calculations and conllruc-
tions.
The quadrature of the circle was undertaken by him
for his own amufement, in the year 1699) deduced from
two different feries, by which the truth of it was proved
to y 2 places of figures, as may be feen in Sherwin’s 1 a-
bles of Logarithms. In the fame book may likewife
be feen bis ingenious improvements on the making of
logarithms, and the conftruding of the natural fines,
tangents, and fecants.
Mr Sharp kept up a correfpondence with moff of the
eminent mathematicians and affronomers of his time,
as Flamfteed, Newton, Halley, W allis, Hodgfon, &c.
the anfvvers to whofe letters are all written on the backs
or empty fpaces, of the letters ne received, in a fhort
hand of his own invention. Being one of the moft
accurate and indefatigable computers whoever exilled }
he was many years the common refource for Flamfteed,
Sir Jonas Moor, Halley, and others, in all forts of trou-
blefome and delicate calculations.
Mr Sharp was never married, and fpent his time as a
hermit. He was of a middle ftature, very thin, of a
weakly conftitution j but remarkably feeble during the
laft 3 or 4 years before his death, which happened on
the 18th of July 1742, in the 91ft year of his age.
He was very irregular as to his meals, and uncommon¬
ly fparing in his diet, which he frequently took in the
following manner. A little fquare hole, refembling a
window, formed a communication between the room
where he ufually ftudied, and another where a fervant
could enter; and before this hole he had contrived a
Hiding board. It often happened, that the breakfaft,
dinner, and fupper, have remained untouched, when the
fervant has gone to remove what was left,—fo deeply
was he engaged in calculations.
Sharp, in Mufic. See Interval.
SHASTAH, the fame as SHASTER.
SHASTER, Shastah, or Bedang, the name of a
facred book, in high eftimation among the idolaters of
Hindoftan, containing all the dogmas of the religion of
the bramins, and all the ceremonies of their worfliip j and
ferving as a commentary on the VedaM.
The term Shajler denotes “ fcience” or “ fyftem” *,
and is applied to other works of aftronomy and philofo-
phy, which have no relation to the religion of the Indians.
None but the bramins and rajahs of India are allowed
to read the Vedam •, the prefts of the Banians, called
Shuderers, may read the Shafter j and the people, in ge¬
neral, are allowed to read only the Paran or Pouran,
which is a commentary on the Shafter.
Vol. XIX. Part I.
S H A
The Shafter is divided into three parts: the firft con- Shaftpr.
taining the moral law of the Indians •, the fecond, the *'
rites and ceremonies of their religion; and the third,
the diftribution of the people into tribes or claffes, with
the duties pertaining to each clafs.
The principal precepts of morality, contained in the
firft part of the Shafter, are the following : that no ani¬
mal be killed, becaufe the Indians attribute fouls to
brute animals as well as to mankind 5 that they neither
hear nor fpeak evil, nor drink wine, nor eat flefh, nor
touch any thing that is unclean ; that they obferve the
feafts, prayers, and walhings, which their law preicribes j
that they tell no lies, nor be guilty of deceit in trade;
that they neither opprefs nor offer violence to one ano¬
ther 5 that they celebrate the folemn feafts and fafts, and
appropriate certain hours of ordinary deep to cultivate a
difpofition for prayer j and that they do not fteal or de¬
fraud one another.
The ceremonies, contained in the fecond part of the
Shafter, are iuch as thefe : that they waih often in the
rivers, hereby obtaining the pardon of their fins} that
they mark their forehead with red, in token of their re¬
lation to the Deity ; that they prefent offerings and
prayers under certain trees, fet apart for this purpofe j
that they pray in the temples, make oblations to their
pagodas or idols, firg hymns, and make proceffions,
&c.j that they make pilgrimages to diftant rivers, and
efpecially to the Ganges, there to wafti themfelves and
make offerings 5 that they make vows to particular
faints, according to their refpeftive departments; that
they render homage to the Deity at the firft fight of
the fun ; that they pay their refpeft to the fun and
moon, which are the two eyes of the Deity •, and that
they treat with particular veneration thofe animals that
are deemed more pure than others 5 as the cow, buffalo,
&c.; becaufe the fouls of men have tranfmigrated into
thefe animals.
The third part of the Shafter records the diftribu¬
tion of the people into four claffes : the firft being that
of the bramins or priefts, appointed to inftruft the peo¬
ple.; the fecond, that of the kutteris or nobles, who are
the magiftrates; the third, that of the {hudderis or
merchants; and the fourth, that of the mechanics.
Each perfon is required to remain in the clafs in which
he was born, and to purfue the occupation affigned to
him by the Shafter. According to the bramins, the
Shafter was imparted by God himfelf to Brahma, and by
him to the bramins ; who communicated the contents
of it to the people.
Modern writers have given us very different accounts
of the antiquity and importance of the Shafter. Mr
Holwell, who had made confiderable progrefs in the
tranflation of this book, apprehends, that the mytholo¬
gy as well as the cofmogony of the Egyptians, Greeks,,
and Romans, was borrowed from the dodrines of the
bramins, contained in it, even to the copying of their
exteriors of worftiip, and the diftribution of their idols,
though grofsly mutilated and adulterated. With refpeft
to the Vedam and Shafter, or feriptures of the Gen-
toos, this writer informs us, that Vedam, in the Mala¬
bar language, fignifies the fame as Shajler in the Shan-
ferit and that the firft: book is followed by the Gen-
toos of the Malabar and Coromandel coafts, and alfo of
the ifland of Ceylon. The Shafter is followed by the
Gentoos of the provinces of Bengal, and by all the
£ e Gentqos
[ 217 ]
S H A [ 21
Shaft^r. Gentoos of the reft of India, commonly called India
Proper, along the courfe of the rivers Ganges and Jum¬
na to the Indus. Both thefe books (he fays) contain
the inftitutes of their refpeiftive religion and worftiip,
as well as the hiftory of their ancient rajahs and princes,
often couched under allegory and fable. Their anti¬
quity is contended for by the partifans of each ; but he
thinks, that the ftmilitude of their names, idols, and
great part of their worlhip, leaves little room to doubt,
nay plainly evinces, that both thefe feriptures were ori¬
ginally one. He adds, if we compare the great purity
and chafte manners of the Shafter with the great ab-
furdities and impurities of the Vedam, rve need not
hefitate to pronounce the latter a corruption of the
former.
With regard to the high original of thefe feriptures,
the account of the bramins is as follows. Brahma
(that is, “ Mighty Spirit”), about 4866 years ago,
allumed the form of man and the government of Indo-
ftan. He tranflated the divine law (defigned for the
reftoration of mankind, who had offended in a pre-ex-
iftent ftate, and who are now in their laft feene of pro¬
bation, to the dignity from which they were degraded)
out of the language of angels into the well known Shan-
ferit language, and called his tranflation the Chartah
Bhade Shaft ah of Binnah, or the Six Scriptures of Divine
Words of the Mightij Spirit. He appointed the bramins,
deriving their name from him, to preach the word of
God •, and the doftrines of the Shafter were according¬
ly preached in their original purity 1000 years. About
this time there was publifhed a paraphrafe on the Char¬
tah Bhade 5 and about 500 years afterwards, a fecond
expofition, called the Aughtorrah Bhade Shaft a, or Eigh¬
teen Books of Divine Words, written in a character com¬
pounded of the common Indoftan and the Shanfcrit.
This innovation produced a Ichifm among the Gen¬
toos ; on which occafion, it is faid, thofe of Coroman¬
del and Malabar formed a feripture of their own,
which they pretended to be founded on the Chartah
Bhade of Bramah, and called it the Vedam of Bir-
mah, or Divine Words of the Mighty Spirit. The ori¬
ginal Chartah Bhade was thrown aftde, and at length
wholly unknown, except to a few families; who can
ilill read and expound it in the Shanfcrit charadler.
With the eftablifhment of the Aughtorrah Bhade, and
Vedam, which, according to the Gentoo account, is
3366 years ago, their polytheifm commenced j and the
principles of religion became fo obfeure, and their ce¬
remonies fo numerous, that every head of a family was
obliged to keep a bramin as a guide both in faith and
practice. Mr Holwell is of opinion, that the Chartah
Bhade, or Original Scriptures, are not copied from any
other fyftem of theology, promulgated to or obtruded
upon mankind. The Gentoos do not attribute them to
Zoroafteiq and Mr Holwell fuppofes, that both Zoroafter
and Pythagoras vifited Indoftan, not to inftruft, but to
be inftrudled.
- From the account of Mr Dow, we learn, that the
books which contain the religion and philofopby of the
Hindoos are diftinguifhed by the name of Bedas; that
they are four in number, and like the facred writings
of other nations, faid to be penned by the Divinity.
Beda, he fays, in the Shanfcrit language, literally fig-
nifies fcience ; and thefe books treat not only of religion
and moral duties, but of. every branch of philofophic
8 ] s H A
knowledge. The bramins maintain, that the Bedas Shallcr.
are the divine laws, which Brimha, at the creation of ——v~~“
the world, delivered for the inftiuclion of mankind j
but they affirm, that their meaning was perverted in
the firft age by the ignorance and wickednefs of fome
princes, whom they reprefent as evil fpirits, who then
haunted the earth.
The firft credible account we have of the Bedas is,
that about the commencement of the Cal Jug, of which
era the year 1768 wras the 4886th year, they were
written, or rather colledted, by a great philofopher and
reputed prophet, called Bedfs Muni, or Bedfs the In-
fpired.
The Hindoos (fays Mr Dow) are divided into two
great religious fedts: the followers of the dodtrine of
Bedang, which is the original Shafter, or commentary
upon the Bedas ; and thofe who adhere to the principles
of the Neadirfen. The original Shafter is called Be¬
dang, and is a commentary upon the Bedas. This book,
he fays, is erroneoufty called in Europe the Vedam. It
is aferibed to Beafs Muni, and is faid to have been re-
vifed fome years after by one Serrider Swami, fince
which it has been reckoned facred, and not fubjedt to
any farther alterations.
Aimoft all the Hindoos of the Decan, and thofe of
the Malabar and Coromandel coafts, are of this feet.
The followers of the Bedang Shafter do not allow that
any phyfical evil exifts j they maintain that God created
all things perfedtly good j but that man, being a free
agent, may be guilty of moral evil, which may be inju¬
rious to himfelf, but can be of no detriment to the gene¬
ral fyftem of nature. God, they fay, being periedtly
benevolent, never puniflied the wicked otherwife than
by the pain and afflidlion which are the natural confe-
quences of evil adlions 3 and hell, therefore, is no other
than a confcioufnefs of evil.
The Neadirfen Shafter is faid to have been written
by a philofopher called Goutam, near four thoufand"
years ago. The bramins, from Mr Dow’s account of
their facred books, appear to believe invariably in the
unity, eternity, omnifcience, and omnipotence of God j
and the polytheifm of which they have been accufed is
no more than a fymbolical worfhip of the divine attri¬
butes, which they divide into three claffes. Under the
name of Brimha, they worftiip the wifdom and creative
power of God j under the appellation of Bifhen, his pro¬
vidential and preferving quality; and under that cf
Shibah, that attribute which tends to defiroy.
As few of our readers may have an opportunity of
perufing the Shafter, we {hall, by way of fpecimen, fub-
join a paffage from it, which, though it contains fome
metaphyficai myfteries concerning the creation, yet dif-
covers views of God fo enlightened that they would not
difgrace more refined nations, d he paffage which we
fhall quote is the firft chapter of the Shafter, which is
a dialogue between Brimha the Wifdom of the Divini¬
ty, and Narud or Reafon, who is reprefented as the fen
of Brimha. Narud defires to be inftrudled by his fa¬
ther ; and for that purpofe puts the following queftions
to him :
“ Narud.. O father ! thou firft of Gcd, thou art faid
to have created the world, and thy fon Narud, aftonilh-
e^at what he beholds, is defirous to be inftrudted hew
ail thefe things were made.
“ Brimha. Be not deceived, my fon ! do not imagine
that
S HA [21
that I was the creatoir of the world, independent of the
Divine Mover, who is the great original effence and
creator of all things. Look, therefore, only upon me
as the inftrument of the great will, and a part ot his
being, whom he called forth to execute his eternal de-
figns.
“ Name!. What fir all we think of God ?
“ Brimha. Being immaterial, he is above all concep¬
tion } being invifible, he can have no form •, but, from
what we behold in Ins works, we may conclude that he
is eternal, omnipotent, knowing all things, and prefent
everywhere.
“ Narud. How did God create the world ?
u Brimha. AfFedtion dwelt with God from all eter¬
nity. It was of three ditterent kinds 5 the cieative, tne
preferving, and the deftrudtive. I his firft is reprefent-
ed by Brimha, the fecond by Biihen, and the third by
Shibah. You, O Narud ! are Uught to worlhip all
the three in various ihapes and likenefies, as t^ie Crea¬
tor, the Preferver, and the Deftroyer. The a Teftion of
God then produced power, and powder, at a proper con¬
junction of time and fate, embraced goadnefs, and pro¬
duced matter. The three qualities then adting upon
matter, produced the univerfe in the following manner:
From the oppofite adtions of the creative and deftrudlive
quality in matter, felf-motion firft arofe. Self-motion
was of three kinds; the firft inclining to plafticity, the
fecond to difeord, and the third to reft. _ The difeord-
ant adlions then produced the Akafii (a kind of celeftial
element), which invifible element pofleffed the quality
of conveying found •, it produced air, a palpable ele¬
ment fire, a vifible element j water, a fluid element j
and earth, a folid element.
“ The Akafti difperfed itfelf abroad. Air formed
the atmofphere j fire, collefting itfelf, blazed forth in
the holt of heaven •, water rofe to the fuvface of the
earth, being forced from beneath by the gravity of the
latter element. Ihus broke forth the rvoild from the
veil of darknefs, in which it was formerly comprehend¬
ed by God. Order rofe over the univerfe. The feven
heavens w’ere formed, and the feven wmrlds were fixed
in their places •, there to remain till the great diffolution,*
when all things {hall be abforbed into God.
“ God feeing the earth in full bloom, and that vege¬
tation was ftrong from its feeds, called forth for the firft
time intelledf, which he endued with various organs and
' ftiapes, to form a diverfity of animals upon the earth.
He endued the animals with five fenfes ; feeling, feeing,
fmelling, tafting, and hearing; but to man he gave re-
ftle&ion, to raife him above the beafts of the field.
“ The creatures were created male and female, that
they might propagate their fpecies upon the earth.
I'lvery herb bore the feed of its kmd, that the world
•might be clothed with verdure, and all animals provided
with food.
“ Name!. What doft thou mean, O father ! by Intel-
left ?
“ Brimha. It is a portion of the great foul of the
umvetfe breathed into all creatures, to animate them
for a cei'tain time.
“ Narud. What becomes of it after death ?
“ Brimha. It animates other bodies, or returns, like
a drop, into that unbounded ocean from which it firft
arofe.
9 ] S H A
“ Narud. Shall not then the fouls of good men re- Shatter,
ceive rewards ? nor the fouls of the bad meet with pu- , ^
nifhment ?
“ Brimha. The fouls of men are diftinguhhed from
thofe of other animals; for the firft are endued with rea-
fon, and with a confcioufnefs of right and wrong. If
therefore man {hall adnere to the firft, as far as his
powers {hall extend, his foul, when difengaged from the
body by death, {hall be abforbed into the divine efience,
and tliall never more reanimate ftefli : But the fouls or
thofe who do evil are not, at death, difengaged from
all the elements. They are immediately clothed with
a body of fire, air, and akafh, in which they are for a
time puniftied. in hell. After the ieafon of their gnel
is over, they reanimate other bodies j but till they lhall
arrive at a ftate of purity they can never be abforbed in¬
to God.
“ Narud. What is the nature of that abforbed ftate
which the fouls of good men enjoy after death ?
“ Brimha. It is a participation of the divine nature,
where all paffions are utterly unknown, and where con-
fcioulnels is loft in blifs.
“ Narud. Thou fayeft, O father, that unlefs the foul
is perfeftly pure it cannot be abforbed into God : now,
as the aftions of the generality of men are partly good
and partly bad, whither are their {pints fent immediate¬
ly after death ?
“ Brimha. They muft atone for their crimes in hell,
where they muft remain for a fpace proportioned to the
degree of their iniquities ; then they rife to heaven to
be' rewarded for a time for their virtues ; and from
thence they will return to the world to reanimate other
bodies.
“ Narud. What is time ?
“ Brimha. Time exifted from all eternity with God :
but it can only be eftimated fince motion was produced,
and only be conceived by the mind, from its own con-
ftant progrefs.
“ Narud. How long {hall this world remain ?
“ Brimha. Until the four jugs {hall have revolved.
Then Rudder (the lame with Shibah, the deftroying
quality of God), with the ten fpirits of diffolution,
{hall roll a comet under the moon, that {hall involve all
things in fire, and reduce the world into afhes. God
{hall then exift alone, for matter will be totally annihi¬
lated.”
Thofe who defire more information on this fubjeft
may confult Dow’s Hiftoiy of Indoftan, and HolwelPs
Interefting Hiftorical Events.
SHAW, Dr Thomas, known to the learned world
by his travels to Barbary and the Levant, was born at
Kendal in Weftmoreland about the year 1692. He
was appointed chaplain to the Englifti coniul at Algiers,
in which ftation he continued for feveral years ; and
from thence took proper opportunities of travelling into
different parts. He returned in 1733 ; was elefted fel¬
low of the Royal Society •, and publiihed the account of
his travels at Oxford, folio, 1738. In 1740 he was
nominated principal of St Edmond-hall, which he raifed
from a ruinous ftate by his munificence ; and was regius
profeffor of Greek at Oxford until his death, which
happened in 1751. Dr Clayton, bifiiop of Clogher,
having attacked thefe Travels in his Defcription of the
Eaft, ©r Shaw publiflied a fupplement by way of yin-
E e 2 dication,
S H E
[ 220 ]
SHE
Sbawia clicatlon, which is incorporated into the fecond edition
of his Travels, prepared by hirafelf, and publifhed in
S' a'hin^.
4to, 1757.
SHAVVIA, a genus of plants, belonging to the clafs
fyngenefia, and order polygamia fegregata, ot which the
charafters are the following •, the calyx is imbricated
wdth five or fix leaves, the three interior of which are
larger 5 the corolla is five-cleft j there is one oblong
feed. One fpecies only has been diicovered, which is a
native of New Zealand.
SHAWLS, are woollen handkerchiefs, an ell wide,
and near two long. The wool is fo fine and filky,
that the whole handkerchief may be contained in the
tw’o hands clofed. It is the produce of a Tibet fheep ;
but fome lay that no wool is employed but that of
lambs torn from the belly of their mother before the
time of birth. The nroft beautiful drawls come from
Cafhmire : their price is from 150 livres (about fix gui¬
neas) to 1200 livres (or 50I. llerling).
In the Tranfadlions of the Society for Encouraging
Arts, Manufaftures, &c. for the year 1792, we are in¬
formed that a drawl counterpane, four yards fquare,
manufactured by Mr P. J. Knights of Norwich, was
prefen ted to the fociety ; and that, upon examination,
it appeared to be of greater breadth than any goods of
equal finenefs and texture that had ever before been pre-
fented to the fociety, or to their knowledge woven in
this country. The drawls of Mr Knights’s manufaiffure,
it is faid, can fcarcely be diilinguifhed from Indian
drawls, though they can be afforded at one-twentieth
part of the price. When the drawl is 16 quarters fquare,
Mr Knights fays it may be retailed at 20I. ; if it con¬
fided of 12 quarters, and embroidered as the former, it
will cod 15I. j if plain, with a fringe only, a drawl of
16 quarters fquare may be fold at 81. 8s. j if 12 quar¬
ters and fringed, at 61. 6?.
Mr Knights maintains, that his counterpane of four
yards fquare is equal in beauty, and fuperior in ftrength,
to the Indian counterpanes, which are fold at 200 gui¬
neas. The principal confumption of this cloth is in
train-dreffes for ladies j as likewife for long fcarfs, in
imitation of the real Indian fcarfs, which are fold from
60I. to Sol. j whereas fcarfs of this fabric are fold for
as many drillings, and the ladies fquare drawls in pro¬
portion.
SHEADING, a riding, tything, or divifion, in the
ide of Man ; the whole idand being divided into fix
{headings j in every one of which is a coroner or chief
condable, appointed by the delivery of a rod at the an¬
nual convention.
SHEARBILL, the RJiynchops Nigra of Linnaeus,
the Black Skimmer of Pennant and Latham, and Cut¬
water of Catefbv. See Ornithology Index.
SHEATHING, in the fea-language, is the cafing
that part of a drip which is to be under water with fir-
board of an inch thick *, firft laying hair and tar mixed
together under the boards, and then nailing them on,
in order to prevent worms from eating the drip’s bot¬
tom.—Ships of war are now generally dreathed with
copper: but copper dreathing is liable to be corroded
by the aclion of fait water, and fomething is dill want¬
ing to effeft this purpofe. It is very probable that tar
tnight anfwer very well.
In the Cornifh mines, copper or brafs pumps are often
placed,in the deepeft parts, and are confequently expo-
Shtbbeare,
fed to the vitriolic or other mineral waters with which Sheathing
feme of thefe mines abound, and which are known to
have a much ffronger effect dn copper than fea water. __
Thefe pumps are generally about fix feet long, and are
fcrewred together, and made tight by the interpofition
of a ring ot lead, and the joinings are afterwards tarred.
One ot thefe pumps was fo much corroded as to render
it unfit for ufe j but the fpots of tar, which by accident
had dropped on it, prelerved the parts they covered
from the abtion of the water. Thefe projected in tome
places more than a quarter of an inch •, and the joints
were lb far defended by the thin coat of tar, that it
was as perfeft as when it came from the hands of the
manufadurer. If tar thus effedually defends copper
from thefe acrid waters, can there remain a doubt of its
preferving it from the much milder waters of the fea *
SHEATS, in a Ihip, are ropes bent to the clews of
the fails, ferving im the kwer iails to haul aft the clews
of the fail ; but in topfails they ferve to haul home
the clew of the fail dole to the yard-arm.
SHEAVE, in Mechanics, a folid cylindrical wheel,
fixed in a channel, and moveable about an axis, as be¬
ing ufed to raife or increafe the mechanical powders ap¬
plied to remove any body.
SHEBBEARE, John, a political writer, was born
at Bideford in Devonfhire, in the year 1709. He re¬
ceived the rudiments of his education at the free gram¬
mar fchool of Exeter. It has been often obferved, that
the future life of a man may be gathered from his pue¬
rile charader ■, and accordingly Shebbeare, while a boy
at fchool, gave the ftrongeft indications of his future
eminence in mifanthropy and learning, by the extraor¬
dinary tenacioufnefs of his memory and the readinefs of
his wit, as w7ell as the malignity of his difpofition ; be¬
ing univerfally regarded as a young man of furprifing
genius, while at the fame time he was defpifed for his
malicious temper.
About the age of 16, Shebbeare was bound appren¬
tice to an eminent furgeon in his native town, under
wEom he acquired a confiderable fhare of medical know’-
ledge. His talent for lampoon appeared at this early
period, and he could not forbear from exercifing it on his
mailer $ but the chief marks for the arrows of his wit
w ere the gentlemen of the corporation, fome of whom
laughed at fuch trifjes, while fuch as were irritable often
commenced profecutions againft him, but without fuc-
cefs. He wras frequently fummoned to appear at the
feffions, for daring to fpeak and wrrite difrefpedfully of
the magiflrates ; but the laugh w as always on the fide
of Shebbeare.
When his time was out, he fet up for himfelf, then
difeovering a tafle for chemiftry *, foon after which he
married an amiable young woman with no fortune, but
of refpedable connedions. Failing in bufinefs at Bide¬
ford, he went to Briftol in 1736, entering into partner-
fhip with a chemifl, and never afterwards vifited his na¬
tive town.
The attention of the public was, in the year 1739,
attraded by an epitaph to the memory of Thomas Co¬
ffer, Efq. M. P. for Briftol, in which he contrived to
raife emotions of pity, grief, and indignation. In the fol¬
lowing year he publifhed a pamphlet on the Briftol wraters,
after which w^e know little or nothing refpeding him for
a number of years. He was at Paris in 1752, where
he obtained, it is faid, the degree of doftorin medicine,
3
S H E [ 22
a fa&, however, which many are difpofed to queftion.
About this time he began to emerge from obfcunty,
and draw the attention of the public, by pamphlets
written with fuch virulence and celerity as it would be
di-iicult to equal in the molt intemperate times. . In
J754 he commenced his career with a work denomina¬
ted the Marriage AEl, a political novel, in which he
treated the legiflature with fuch freedom that he was ap¬
prehended, but foon after fet at liberty.
The molt celebrated performances, however, were a
feries of letters to the People ot Itmgland, wuitten in a
vigorous and energetic ftyle, well calculated to make
an impreffian on common readers j and they, were of
courfe read with avidity, and diligently circulated.
They galled the miniltry, who atfirft were too eager to
puniih the author. When the third letter wras publitr-
ed, warrants were iffued by Lord Holderneffe in Maich
1756, to take up both the publilher and the author •, a
prosecution which appears to have been dropt. On the
1 2th of January 1758, the fame nobleman figned a ge¬
neral warrant for apprehending the author, printer, and
publifhers of a wicked, audacious, and trealonable libel,
entitled, “ A fixth letter to the people of England, on
the progrefs of national ruin, in which is {hewn that
the prefent grandeur of France and calamities cx this
nation are owing to the influence of Hanover on the
councils of England and then having found, to
feize and apprehend, together writh their books and
PaPers' . . . . .
Government having received intormation that a. ie-
venth letter was in the prefs, all the copies w;ere feized
and ruppreffed by virtue of another warrant, dated Ja¬
nuary 23. In Eafter term an information was filed
againft him by the attorney-general, and on the 17th
of June the information was tried, when Shebbeare was
found guilty ; and on the 28th of November he received
fentence, by which he w'as fined 5I. ordered to ftand in
the pillory December 5. at Charing Crofs, to be con¬
fined three years, and to give fecurity for his good be¬
haviour for feven years, himfelf in 500!. and twro others
in 250I. each. During his confinement, he declared he
never received as prefents more than 20 guineas from
all the world.
He was detained in prifon during the whole time of
the fentence, and with fome degree of rigour } for when
his life was in danger from a bad ftate of health, and
he applied to the court of king’s-bench for permiffion to
be carried into the rules a few hours in a day 5 though
Lord Mansfield acceded to the petition, the prayer of it
was denied and defeated by Judge Fofter. At the ter¬
mination of the time of his fentence,.a new reign com¬
menced •, and (hortly afterwards, during Mr Grenville s
adminiftration, a penfion of 200I. a-year was granted
him by the crown, through the influence of Sir John
Philips \ and he ever after became devoted to. the fer-
vice of government. He was of courfe abufed in almolt
every periodical work,.which he feems in general to
have had the good fenfe to neglefh Dr Smollet intro¬
duced him, in no very refpe&ful light, under the name
of Ferret, in Sir Launcelot Greaves ; and Mr Hogarth
made him one of the group in the third eleftion
print. '
During the latter part of his life he feems to have
written but little. He ftrenuoufly fupported the mini-
ftry during the American war, having publilhed, in
i ] SHE
1775, an anfwer to the printed^ fpeech of Edmund Shebbeare,
Burke, Efq. fpoken in the houfe of cammons, April 19. |
I774> wherein he inveftigates his knowledge of polity,
legiflature, human kind, hiftory, commerce, and finance j
his arguments are examined ; the conduft of adminiftra¬
tion is boldly defended, and his talents as an orator clear¬
ly expofed to view. An effay on the origin, progrefs,
and eftabliftiment of National Society •, in which the
principles of government, the definition of phyfical, mo¬
ral, civil, and religious liberty contained in Dr Price’s
obfervations, &c. are examined and controverted j to¬
gether with a juftification of the legiflature in reducing
America to obedience by iorce. _
His publications of a fatirical, political, and medical
nature, amount to 34, befides a novel called Filial
Piety, in which hypocrify and bluftering courage are
very properly chaftii'ed. He died on the ill of Augult
1788, leaving behind him the chara&er of a benevolent
man among thofe who were beft acquainted with him 4
a charafter which, from the manner he fpeaks of his
connections, he probably deferved.
SHEEP, in 'Zoology. See Ovis and Wool. i
Amongit the various animals with which Divine Pio-^h^c ^
vidence has ftored the world lor the ufe of man, none
to be found more innocent, more uleful, or more vah-1* 0£ purpofes*
able, than the iheep. The fheep fupplies us with food
and clothing, and finds ample employment lor our
poor at all times and feafons of the year, whereby a
variety of manufactures of woollen cloth is carried on
without interruption to domeftic comfort and lofs.to
friendly fociety or injury to health, as is the cafe with,
many other occupations. Every lock of rvool that
grows on its back becomes the means of fupport to
ftaplers, dyers, pickers, fcourers, fcriolers, carders,
combers, fpinners, fpoolers, warpers, queelers, weavers,
fullers, tuckers, burlers, (hearmen, prefiers, clothiers,
and packers, who, one after another, tumble and tojs,
and twift, and bake, and boil, this raw material, till
they have each extracted a livelihood out of it •, and.,
then comes the merchant, who, in his turn, {hips it (in
its higheft ftate of improvement) to all quarters of the
Mobe, from whence he brings back every kind of riches
to his country, in return tor this valuable commodity
which the ftieep affords. . .
Befides this, the ufeful animal, after being deprived
of his coat, produces another againft the next year ;
and when we are hungry, and kill him for food, he
gives us his {kin to employ the fell-mongers and parch¬
ment-makers, who fupply us with a durable material for
fecuring our eftates, rights, and poffeflions ; and if our
enemies take the field againft us, fupphes us with a
powerful inftrument for roufing our courage to repel
their attacks. When the parchment-maker has taken
as much of the {kin as he can ufe, the glue-maker comes
after and picks up every morfel that is left, and tnere-
with fupplies a material for the carpenter and cabinet¬
maker, which they cannot do without, and which is
effentially neceffary before we can have elegant furniture
in our houfes-, tables, chairs, looking-glaffes, and. a
hundred other articles of convenience : and when tne
winter nights come on, while we are deprived of tne
cheering light of the fun, the fheep fupplies us with an
artificial mode of light, whereby we preferve every plea-
fure of domeftic Cbciety, and .with who.e ainftance we
can continue our work, or write or read;
and improve
our.
SHE [
^!ieeP- our minds, or enjoy the focial mirth of our tables.
222 ]
SHE
An-
Account of
the Spar.ifli woolled
iheep
otlier part of the ilaughtered animal fupplies us with an
ingredient neceffary for making good common foap, a
ufeful llore for producing cleanlinefs in every family,
rich or poor. Neither need the horns be thrown away;
for they are converted by the button-makers and turners
into a cheap kind of buttons, tips for bows, and many
ufeful ornaments. From the very trotters an oil is ex¬
tracted ufeful for many purpofes, and they afford good
food when baked in an oven.
Even the bones are ufetul alfo •, for by a late inven¬
tion of Dr Higgins, they are found, when reduced to
allies, to be an ufeful andeffential ingredient in the com-
petition of the fineft artificial (tone in ornamental work
for chimney-pieces, cornices of rooms, houfes, &c.
which renders the compofition more durable by effec¬
tually preventing its cracking (a).
If it is objeCted to the meek inoffenfive creature, that
he is expenfive while living, in eating up our grafs,
&c. it may be anfwered that it is quite the contrary ;
for he can feed where every other animal has been be¬
fore him and grazed all they could find ; and that if he
takes a little grafs on our downs or in our fields, he
amply repays us for every blade of grafs in the richnets
of the manure which he leaves behind him. He pro¬
tects the hands from the cold wintry blatt, by providing
them with the foftefi: leather gloves. Every gentle¬
man’s library is alfo indebted to him for the neat bind¬
ing of his books, for the fheath of his fword, and for
cafes for his inftruments ; in thort, not to be tedious in
mentioning the various ufes of leather, there b hardly
any furniture or uteniil of life but the theep contri¬
butes to render either more ufeful, convenient, or orna¬
mental.
As the tlieep is fo valuable an animal, every piece of
information concerning the proper method of managing
it muff be of importance. It will not therefore be ufe-
lefs or unentertaming to give fome account of the man¬
ner of managing (lieep in Spain, a country famous for
producing the bell wool in the world.
In Spain there are two kinds of fheep : the coarfe-
fiieep, wEich always remain in their native
country, and are houfed every night in winter; and the
fine-woolled fiieep, which are always in the open air,
and travel every fummer from the cool mountains of the
northern parts of Spain, to feed in winter on the fouth-
ern warm plains of Andalufia, Mancha, and Eftrema-
dura.. Of thefe latter, it appears from accurate com- Sheep,
putations, that there are about five millions (b) ; and —y—
that the wool and tlefii of a flock of 10,000 fheep pro¬
duced yearly about 24 reals a-head, about the value
of x 2 Engliih fixpences, one of which belongs to the
owner, three to the king, and the other eight are allow¬
ed for the expeiices of pafture, tythe?, fhepherds, dogs,
iak, (hearing, 6ec. ien thoufand fheep form a flock,
which is divided into ten tribes, under the management
or one perfon, who has abfolute dominion over fifty fhep¬
herds and fifty dogs.
M. Bourgoanne, a French gentleman, who refidedofScgov;.-,
many years in Spain, and direCled his inquiries chiefly
to the civil government, trade, and manufactures, of
that country, gives the following account of the wan¬
dering flieep of Segovia. “ It is (fays he) in the neigh-
bouring mountains that a part of the wandering fheep anne's Tra-
feed during the fine feafon. They leave them in the '^’vo1, i“
month of OCIober, pafs over thofe which feparate the^ '^’
two Caitiles, crofs New Caftile, and difperfe themfelves
in the plains of Eftramadura and Andalufia. For fome
yeais paft thofe of the two Caftiles, which are within
reach of the Sierra-Morena, go thither to pafs the win¬
ter •, which, in that part of Spain, is more mild ; the
length of their day’s journey is in proportion to the
pafture they meet with. They travel in flocks from
1000 to 1200 in number, under the conduCl of two
fhepherds ; one of whom is called the Mayoral, the
other the Zagal. When arrived at the place of their
deftination, they are diffributed in the pafiures previoui-
ly afligned them. They return in the month of April;
and whether it be habit or natural inftinCl: that draws
them towards the climate, which at this feafon becomes
moft proper for them, the inquietude which they mani-
feft might, in cafe of need, ferve as an almanac to their
conductors.”
Mr Arthur Young, in that patriotic work which he
condufted with great induftry and judgement, the An¬
nals of Agriculture, gives us a very accurate and inte-
refling account of the Pyrenean or Catalonian flieep.
“ On the northern ridge, bearing to the weft, are theof dualo-
paftures of the Spanifh flocks. This ridge is not, how-nia. An~
ever, the whole; there are two other mountains, quite
in a different fituation, and the fheep travel from one
another as the pafturage is ftiort or plentiful. I exa-p°
mined the foil of thefe mountain paftures, and found it
in general ftony ; what in the weft of England would
be
(a) Any curious perfon would be much entertained to fee the manufaftory of bone-afh, now (about 1794) car¬
ried on by Mr Minifh of White-chapel, New Road, wherein the bones of fheep and cows undergo many ingenious
proceffes. 1. Ihere is a mill to break them ; 2. A cauldron to extraCI their oil, marrow, and fat ; 3. A reverbe¬
ratory to heat them'red hot; 4. An oven for thofe bones to moulder to aihes; A ftill to colleCt the fumes of
the burnt bones into a brown fluid, from whence hartfhorn is made ; 6. Furnaces for making parts thereof
into Glauber’s falts ; 7. A fand heat containing twelve jars, for collecting a cryftallizing vapour into fal-am-
moniac.
\n.^ie I6th century the travelling flieep were eftimated at feven millions : under Phillip HI. the number
was diminiflied to two millions and a half. Uftariz, who xvrote at the beginning of the 18th century, made it
amount to four millions. Ihe general opinion is, that at prefent it does not exceed five millions. If to this num¬
ber the eight millions of ftationary fheep be added, it will make nearly thirteen millions of animals, all managed
contrary to the true interefts of Spain, for the advantage of a few individuals. For the proprietors of ftationary
flocks afto have privileges which greatly referable thofe of the members of the Mefta. According to Arriquebar,
'Spain contains eight millions of fine-wcolled flieep, ten millions of coarfe-woolled, and five hundred thoufand buffs,
oxen, and cows. 4
SHE [ 22
be called a Jlone brajh, with fome mixture of loam, and
in a few places a little peaty. The plants are many of
them untouched by the flieep j many ferns, narciflhs,
violets, &.c. but burnet (poterium fanguiforba) and the
narrow-leaved plantain (piantago lanceolata) were eaten,
as may be fuppofed, dole. I looked lor trefoils, but
found fcarcely any : it was very apparent that foil and
peculiarity of herbage had little to do in rendering thefe
heights proper for flieep. In the northern parts of Eu¬
rope, the tops of mountains half the height of thele
(for we were above fnow in July) are bogs, ail are fo
which I have feen in cur iflands, or at leaft the pro¬
portion of dry land is very trifling to that which is ex¬
tremely wet: Here they are in general very dry. Now
a great range of dry land, let the plants be what they
may, will in every country fuit flieep. The flock is
brought every night to one fpot, which is fltuated at
the end of the valley on the river I have mentioned, and
near the port or paffage of Picada : it is a level fpot fliel-
tered from all winds. I he foil is eight or nine^ inches
deep of old dung, not at air inclofed from the fieedom
from wood all around, it feems to be choien partly for
fafety againft wolves and bears. Near it is a very large
ftone, or rather rock, fallen from the mountain. I nis
the fhepherds have taken for a flielter, and have built a
hut againft it \ their beds are flieep fkins, and their
door lo fmall that they crawl in. I faw no place for
fire ; but they have it, fince they drefs here the flelh of
their fheep, and in the night fome times keep, off the
bears, by whirling fire-brands: four of them belonging
to the flock mentioned above lie here. I viewed their
flock very carefully, and by means of our guide and in¬
terpreter, made fome inquiries of the fhepherds, which
they anfwered readily, and very civilly. A Spaniard
at Venafque, a city in the Pyrenees, gives 600 livres
French (the livre is lo^d. Englifli) a-year for the paf-
turage of this flock of 2000 fheep. In the winter he
fends them into the lower parts of Catalonia, a journey
of 12 or 13 days, and when the fnow is melted in the
fpring, they are conducted back again. I hey are Uie'
whole year kept in motion, and moving from fpot to
fpot, which is owing to the great range they everywhere
have of pafture. They are always in the open air, ne¬
ver houfed or under cover, and never tafle of any food
but what they can find on the hills.
“ Four fhepherds, and from four to fix large Spanifn
dogs, have the care of this flock : the latter are in France
called of the Pyrenees breed; they are black and white,
of the fize of a large wolf, a large head and neck, arm¬
ed with collars fluck with iron fpikes. No wolf can ftand
againft them but bears are more potent adverfarres :
if a bear can reach a tree, he is fafe ; he rifes on his hind
legs, with his back to the tree, and fets the dogs at de¬
fiance. In the night the fhepherds rely entirely on
their dogs •, but on hearing them bark are ready with
fire-arms, as the dogs rarely bark if a bear is not at
hand. I was furprifed to find that they are fed only
with bread and milk. The head ftiepherd is paid 1 20
livres a-year wages and bread ; the others 80 livres and
bread. Put they are allowed to keep goats, of which
they have many which they milk every day. Their food
is milk and bread, except the flefh of fuch flieep or
l imbs as accidents give them. The head fhepherd
keeps on the mountain top, nr an elevated fpot, from
whence he can the better fee around while the flock
3 ] SHE
traverfes the declivities. In doing this the flieep are ex- Sheep. ,
pofed to great danger in places that are ftony } for by " «
walking among the rocks, and efpecially the goats,
they move the ftones, which, rolling down the hills,
acquire an accelerated force enough to knock a man
down, and fheep are often killed by them ; yet we faw
how alert they were to avoid fuch ftones, and cautiouf-
ly on their guard againft them. I examined the fheep
attentively. They are in general polled, but fome have
horns; which in the rams turn backwards behind the
ears and projea half a circle forward; the ewes horns
turn aifo behind the ears, but do not projefl.. the legs
white or reddith } fpeckled faces, fome white, fome
reddifh *, they would weigh fat, I reckon, on an average,
from 15 lb. "to 18 lb. a quarter. Some tails fliort, fome
left long. A ferv black ftieep among them : fome with
a very little tuft of w’ool on their foreheads. On the
whole they refemble thofe on the South Downs; their
legs are as fhoit as thofe of that breed j a point which
merits obfervation, as they travel fo much and fo well.
Their fhape is very good , round ribs and flat ftraight
backs; and would with us be reckoned handfome fheep ;
all in good order and flefh. In order to be ftill better
acquainted with them, I defired one of the fhepherds to
catch a ram for me to feel, and examine the wool, which
I found very thick and good of the carding .011, as may
be fuppofed. 1 took a fpecimen of it, and alfo of a
boggit, or lamb ol left year. In regard to the mellow
foftnefs under the fkin, which, in Mr Bakewell’s opi¬
nion, is a ftrong indication of a good breed, with a dii-
pofition to fatten, lie had it in a much fuperior degree
to many: of our Englifh breeds, to the full as much lo
as the South Downs, which are for that point'the Left
fhort-woolled fheep which I know in England. Ihe
fleece was on his back, and weighed, as a guefied, about
8 lb. Englifh but the average, they fay, of the flock
is from four to five, as I calculated by 1 educing the Ca¬
talonian pound of 12 oz. to ours or 16, and is all fold
to the French at 30s. the lb. French. This ram had
the wool of the back-part of his neck tied cuofe, and the
upper tuft tied a fecond knot by way of ornament; nor
do they ever fliear this part of’the fleece for that reafon .
we faw feveral in the flock with this fpecies of decora¬
tion. They faid that this ram would fell in Catalonia,
for 20 livres. A circumftance which cannot be too
much commended, and deferves univerfal imitation, 1,
the extreme docility they accuftom tnem to. Vv hen I
defired the ftiepherd to catch one of his rams, I fuppofed
he would do it with his crook, or probably not be able
to do it at all; but he walked into the flock, and Angl¬
ing out a ram and a goat, bid them follow him, which
they did immediately and he talked to them wrhile
they were obeying him, holding out his’ hand as if to
give them fomething. By this method he brought m^,
the ram, which I caught, and held without difficulty.” 5
The beft fort of ftieep for fine wool are thofe bred What flieep
in Herefordfhire, Devonfhire, and Worcefterfhire ; but produce the
they are fmall, and black-faced, and bear but a fmall beft wool,
quantity. Warwick, Leicefterfhire, Buckingham, and
Northamptonfhire, breed a large-boned fheep, of the
beft fliape and deepeft wool we Have. I he maifhes
of Lincolnfhire breed a very large kind of fheep, but
their wool is not good, unlefs the breed be mended by
bringing in flieep of other counties among them, which
is a fcheme of late very profitably followed there. In
llus-.
SHE [ 224 j SHE
Sheep- tliis county, it is no uncommon thing to give fifty gui-
neas for a ram, and a guinea for the admiflion of an
ewe to one of thefe valuable males, or twenty guineas
for the ufe of it for a certain number of ewes during
one feafon. Suffolk, alfo breeds a very valuable kind of
fheep. The northern counties in general breed flieep
with long but hairy wool: however, the wool which is
taken from the neck and fhoulders of the York (hire fheep
is ufed for mixing with Spanifh wool in fome of their
fineft cloths.
Wales bears a fmall hardy kind of fheep, which has
the belt tafted flefh, but the word wool of all. Never-
thelefs it is of more extenfive ufe than the fineft Sego-
vian fleeces ; for the benefit of the flannel manufacture
is univerfally known. The fheep of Ireland vary like
thofe of Great Britain j thofe of the fouth and eaft be-,
ing large and their flefh rank : thofe of the north and
the mountainous parts fmall and their flefh fweet. The
fleeces in the fame manner differ in degrees ef value.
Scotland breeds a fmall kind, and their fleeces are coarfe.
But the new Leicefterfhire breed is the moft fafhion-
able, and of courfe the moft profitable breed in the
ifland. Jofeph Altom of Clifton, who raifed himfelf
from a plough-boy, was the firft who diftinguifhed him¬
felf in the midland counties of England for a fuperior
breed of fheep. How he improved his breed is not
known ; but it was cuftomary for eminent farmers in his
time to go to Clifton in fummer to choofe and purchafe
ram lambs, for which they paid two or three guineas.
This man was fucceeded by Mr Bakewell j and it may
reafonably be fuppofed that the breed, by means of Al-
tom’s flock, had paffed the firft ftage of improvement
before Mr Bakew’ell’s time. Still, however, it muft be
acknowledged, that the Leicefterfhire breed of fheep
owTes its prefent high ftate of improvement to the ability
6 and care of Mr Bakewell.
Account of “ The manner in which Mr Bakewell raifed his fheep
Mr Bake- to the degree of celebrity in which they defervedly ftand,
well’s is> notwithftanding the recentnefs of the improvement,
and its being done in the day of thoufands now living,
Midland a *n difpute j even among men high in the pro-
Countiet, feflion, and living in the very diitriCl in which the im-
vol. i. provement has been carried on !
p.382. “ Some are of opinion that he effe&ed it by a crofs
How^it is wfth th6 Wiltfhire breed ; an improbable idea, as their
fuppofed he f°rin altogether contradiCls it: others, that the Ryeland
improved breed were ufed for this purpofe \ and with fome ftiow
lt’ of probability. If any crofs whatever wras ufed the Rye-
land breed, whether we view the form, the fize, the
wool, the flefh, or the fatting quality, is the moft pro¬
bable inftrument of improvement.
“ Thefe ideas, however, are regiftered merely as mat¬
ters of opinion. It is more than probable that Mr Bake¬
well alone is in poffeflion of the feveral minutiae of im¬
provement *, and the public can only hope that at a proper
time the fads may be communicated for the diredion
of future improvers.
“ Whenever this fhall take place, it will moft probably
come out that no crofs with any alien breed whatever
Jhas been ufed j but that the improvement has been ef-
fe£led by fele£ling individuals from kindred breeds j Sheep,
from the feveral breeds or varieties of long-woolled fheep,
with which Mr Bakcwell was furrounded on almoft
every fide, and by breeding, inandin (c), with this fe-
ledlion : folicitoufly feizing the fuperior accidental va¬
rieties produced ; aflbciating thele varieties ; and ftill
continuing to feleft, with judgement, the fuperior indi¬
viduals. s
“ It now remains to give a defeription of the fnperior Defcription
clafs of individuals of this breed, efpecially ewes and of hls ewes
wedders, in full condition, but not immoderately
The rams will require to be diftinguifhed afterwards.
“ The head is long, fmall, and hornlefs, with ears
fomewhat long, and ftanding backward, and with the
nofe fhooting forward. The neck thin, and clean to¬
ward the head ; but taking a conical form ; ftanding
low, and enlarging every way at the bafe j the fore-end
altogether fhort. The bofom broad, with the fhoulders,
ribs, and chine extraordinary full. The loin broad, and
the back level. The haunches comparatively full to¬
ward the hips, but light downward j being altogether
fmall in proportion to the fore-parts. The legs, at pre¬
fent, of a moderate length } with the bone extremely
fine. The bone throughout remarkably light. The
carcafe, when fully fat, takes a remarkable form 5 much
wider than it is deep, and almoft as broad as it is long.
Full on the fhoulder, wideft on the ribs, narrowing with
a regular curve towards the tail j approaching the form
of the turtle nearer perhaps than any other animal. The
pelt is thin, and the tail fmall. The wool is fhorter
than long wools in general, but much longer than the
middle wools j the ordinary length of ftaple five to feven
inches, varying much in finenefs and weight.” 9
This breed furpaffes every other in beauty of form ; Fatten r«-
fhey are full and weighty in the fore quarters $ and are markabiy
remarkable for fmallnefs of bone. Mr Marfhall, who wel1*
has been of fo much benefit to agriculture and his coun¬
try by his publications, informs us, in his Rural Economy
of the Midland Counties, that he has feen a rib of a
fheep of this breed con trailed with one of a Norfolk
fneep : the difparity w^as linking j the latter nearly
twice the fize ; while the meat which covered the for¬
mer was three times the thicknefs : confequently the
proportion of meat to bone was in the one incompara¬
bly greater than in the other. Therefore, in this point
of view, the improved breed has a decided preference :
for furely while mankind continue to eat flefh and throw
away bone, the former muft be, to the confumer at leaft,
the more valuable.
The criterions of good and bad flefh while the ani¬
mal is alive differ in different fpecies, and are not pro¬
perly fettled in the fame fpecies. One fuperior breeder
is of opinion, that if the flefh is not loofe, it is of courfe
good •, holding, that the flefh of flieep is never found
in a flate of hardneis, like that of ill-flefhed cattle :
w'hile others make a fourfold diftinflion of the flefh of
fheep j as loofenefs, mellownefs, firmnefs, hardnefs : con-
fldering the firft and the laft equally exceptionable, and
the fecond and third equally defirable ; a happy mixture
of the two being deemed the point of perfedlion.
(c) Inandin is a term ufed in the midland counties of England to exprefs breeding from the fame family,
3
//"/■yw:
Plate CCCCLXXX
(nn ar—■■ ■***.*■«<^-,**<- 
Plate C C C (1-XXXL1
K\
/f
I Wh
1 %
m I
1 i
"\\ m
i': V. : j;'■ w1' *■
k
81-^
S'if if Bql.'ts .
li, Mifr/ir// //////
*
SHE t 225 ] SHE
Sheep.
Midland
Counties,
vol. i.
P- 398*
io
How the
rams are
reared.
The fle(h of ftieep, when flaughtered, is well known
J to be of various qualities. Some is compofed of large
coarfe grains, interfperfed with wide empty pores like a
{ponge : others, of large grains, with wide pores filled
with fat j others, of fine clofe grains, with fmaller pores
filled with fat : and a fourth, of clofe grains, without
feny intermixture of fatnefs.
The flefli of fheep, when dreffed, is equally well
known to pofTefe a variety of qualities : fome mutton is
coarfe, dry, and infipid ; a dry fponge, affording little
or no gravy of any colour. Another fort is fomewhat
firmer, imparting a light-coloured gravy only. A third
plump, fhort, and palatable j affording a mixture of
white and red gravy. A fourth likewife plump and
well-flavoured, but difeharging red gravy, and this in
various quantities.
It is likewife obfervable, that fome mutton, when
dreffed, appears covered with a thick, tough, parch¬
ment-like integument j others with a membrane compa¬
ratively fine and flexible. But thefe, and fome of the
other qualities of mutton, may not be wholly owing to
breed, but in part to the age and the flate of fatnefs
at the time of (laughter. Examined in this light, whe¬
ther we confider the degree of fatnefs, or their natural
propenfity to a ftate of fatnefs, even at an early age,
the improved breed of Leicefterfhire fheep appears with
many fuperior advantages.
The degree of fatnefs to which the individuals of this
breed are capable of being raifed, will perhaps appear
incredible to thofe who have not had an opportunity of
being convinced by their own obfervation. “ I have feen
wedders (fays Mr Matfhall) of only two fhear (two or
three years old) fo loaded with fat as to be fcarcely
able to make a run 5 and whofe fat lay fo much with¬
out the bone, it feemed ready to be fhaken from the ribs
on the fmalleft agitation.
. “ It is common for the fheep of this breed to have
fuch a projection of fat upon the ribs, immediately be¬
hind the fhoulder, that it may be eafily gathered up in
the hand, as the flank of a fat bullock. Hence it has
gained, in technical language, the name of the fore-
flank; a point which a modern breeder never fails to
touch in judging of the quality of this breed of fheep.
“ What is, perhaps, flill more extraordinary, it is not
rare for the rams, at leaf! of this breed, to be ‘ cracked
on the back ^ that is, to be cloven along the top of
the chine, in the manner fat fheep generally are upon
the rump. This mark is confidered as an evidence of
the belt blood.
“ Extraordinary, however, as are thefe appearances
while the animals are living, the fadts are ftill more flri-
king after they are flaughtered. At Litchfield, in Feb¬
ruary 1785, I faw a fore quarter of mutton, fatted by
Mr Princep of Croxall, and which meafured upon the
ribs four inches of fat. It muft be acknowledged, how¬
ever, that the Leicefterfhire breed do not produce fo
much wool as moft other long-woolled ftieep.”
As the pradlice of letting rams by the feafon is now
become profitable, it may be ufeful to mention the me¬
thod of rearing them.
“ The principal ram-breeders fave annually twenty,
thirty, or perhaps forty ram lambs •, caflration being
feldom applied, in the firft inftance, to the produce of a
valuable ram, for in the choice of thefe lambs they are
led more by blood or parentage, than by form ; on
Vol. XIX. Part I.
which, at an early age, little dependence can be placed.
Their treatment from the time they are weaned, in July
or Auguft, until the time of (hearing, the firft week in
June, confifts in giving them every indulgence of keep,
in order to pufh them forward for the (how ) it being
the common praftice to let fuch as are fit to be let the
firft feafon, while they are yet yearlings—provincialiy
‘ fharhogs.’
“ Their firft pafture, after weaning, is pretty gene¬
rally, I believe, clover that has been mown early, and
has got a fecond time into head j the heads of clover
being confidered as a moft forcing food of ftieep. After
this goes off, turnips, cabbages, colewort, with hay, and
(report fays) with corn. But the ufe of this the
breeders feverally deny, though colleftively they may be
liable to the charge.
“ Be this as it may, fomething confiderable depends
on the art of making up, not lambs only, but rams of all
ages. Fat, like charity, covers a multitude of faults $
and befides, is the beft evidence of their fatting quality
which their owners can produce (z. e. their natural pro¬
penfity to a ftate of fatnefs), while in the fatnefs of the
(harhogs is feen their degree of inclination to fat at an
early age.
“ Fatting quality being the one thing needful in gra¬
zing flock, and being found, in fome confiderable de¬
gree at leaft, to be hereditary, the fatteft rams are of
courfe the beft ; though other attachments, well or ill
placed, as to form or fafhionable points, will perhaps
have equal or greater weight in the minds of fome men,
even in this enlightened age. Such fhearlings as will
not make up fufticiently as to form and fatnefs, are either
kept on to another year to give them a fair chance, or
are caftrated, or butchered while fharhogs.”
From the firft letting, about 40 years ago, to the fum8
year 1780, the prices kept gradually riling from fifteen Mr Bake-
fhillings to a guinea, and from one to ten. In 1780 well re-
Mr Bakewell let feveral at ten guineas each •, and, what^^ ^
is rather inexplicable, Mr Parkinfon of Quarndon let
one the fame year for twenty-five guineas j a price which
then aftonifhed the whole country.
From that time to 1786 Mr Bakewell’s flock rofe
rapidly from ten to a hundred guineas j and that year
he let two thirds of one ram (referving one third of the
ufual number of ewes to himfelf) to two principal
breeders, for a hundred guineas each, the entire fervices
of the ram being rated at three hundred guineas l Mr
Bakewell making that year, by letting twenty rams on¬
ly, more than a thoufand pounds !
Since that time the prices have been ftill rifing. Four
hundred guineas have been repeatedly given. Mr Bake¬
well, this year (1789) makes, fays Mr Marfhall, twelve
hundred guineas by three rams (brothers, we believe) *,
two thoufand of feven ; and of his whole letting, full
three thoufand guineas!
Befide this extraordinary fum made by Mr Bakewell,
there are fix or feven other breeders who make from
five hundred to a thoufand guineas each. The whole
amount of moneys produced that year in the midland
counties, by letting rams of the modern breed for one
feafon only, is eftimated, by thofe who are adequate to
the fubjeft, at the almoft incredible fum of ten thoufand
pounds.
Rams previous to the feafon are reduced from the
cumbrous fat ftate in which they are fhown. The ufual
F f time
SHE [ 226 ] SHE
Sheep- time of fending them out is the middle of September.
They are conveyed in carriages of two wheels with
The treat- fPrinSs> or hung in flings, 20 or 30 miles a-day, fome-
ment of times to the diftance of 200 or 300 miles. They are
the rams not turned loofe among the ewes, but kept apart in a
of theh°1Ce inclot*ure’ where a couple of ewes only are admit-
icwes. once• Vvrhen the feafon is over, every care is
taken to make the rams look as fat and handlome as
poflible.
In the choice of ewes the breeder is led by the fame
. criterions as in the choice of rams. Breed is the firlt
objedf of confideration. Excellency, in any fpecies or
variety of live-dock, cannot be attained with any degree
of certainty, let the male be ever fo excellent, unlels
the females employed likewife inherit a large proportion
of the genuine blood, be the fpecies or variety what it
may. Hence no prudent man ventures to give the
higher prices for the Hifhley rams, unlels his ewes are
deeply tinffured with the .Dithley blood. Next to breed
is flelh, fat, form, and wool.
-After the lambs are weaned, the ewes are kept in
common feeding places, without any alteration of paf-
ture, previous to their taking the ram. In winter they
are kept on grafs, hay, turnips, and cabbages. As the
heads of the modern b:eed are much finer than moll
others, the ewes lamb with lefs difficulty.
The female lambs, on being weaned, are put to good
keep, but have not fuch high indulgence ffiown them as
the males, the prevailing practice being to keep them
from the ram the firit autumn.
At weaning time, or previoully to the admiffion of
the ram, the ewes are culled, to make room for the
thaves or {headings, whofe fuperior blood and falhion
intitle them to a place in the breeding flock. In the
work of culling, the ram-breeder and the mere grazier
go by fomewhat different guides. The grazier’s guide
is principally age, feldom giving his erves the ram after
they are lour ihcar. The ram-breeder, on the con-
trary, goes chiefly by merit j an ewe that has brought
him a good ram or two is continued in the flock fo
long as ffie will breed. There are inflances of ewes ha¬
ving been prolific to the tenth or twelfth year j but in
general the ewes of this breed go off at fix or feven
{hear.
In the praflice of fome of the principal ram-breeders,
the culling ewes are never fuffered to go out of their
bands until after they are flaughtered, the breeders not
only fatting them, but having them butchered, on their
premifes. There are others, however, who fell them ;
and fometimes at extraordinary prices. Three, four, and
even fo high as ten guineas each, have been given for
thefe outcafts.
There are in the flocks of feveral breeders ewes that
would fetch at auflion twenty guineas each. Mr Bake-
well is in poffeflion of ewes which, if they were now put
up to be fold to the beff bidder, would, it is eftimated,
fetch no lefs than fifty each, and perhaps, through the
13 prefent fpint of contention, much higher prices.
Inftru<ftions Phe following inftruftions for puichafing flieep, we
fineflieea~ ^°pe’ be accePtable to our country readers.—The
g 1 e,5‘ farmer fliould always buy his fheep from a worfe land
than his own, and they fhould be big-boned, and have
a long greafy wool, curling clofe and well. Thefe fheep
always breed the fineft wool, and are alfo the moft ap¬
proved of by the butcher for fale in the market. For
the choice of fheep to breed, the ram muff be young, Sfecg
and his fkin of the fame colour with his wool, for the
lambs will be of the fame colour with his Ikin. Ha
fliould have a large long body j abroad forehead, round,
and well-rifing ; large eyes 5 and ftraight and fliort
noftnls. rI he polled Iheep, that is, thofe which have 110
horns, are found to be the beft breedeis. The ewe
fhoffid have a broad back j a large bending neck ; fmall,
but fliort, clean, and nimble legs; and a thick, deep
wool covering her all over.
I o know whether they be found or rot, the farmer
fhould examine the wool that none of it be wanting,
and fee that the gums be red, the teeth white and even,
and the brifkel-lkin red, the wool firm, the breath
fwcet, and the feet not hot. Two years old is the beft
time for beginning to breed ; and their firit lambs fliould
not be kept too long, to weaken them by fuckling, but
be fold as foon as conveniently may be. They will
breed advantageoufly till they are .feven years old. The
farmers have a method of knowing the age of a fheep,
as a horfe’s is known, by the mouth. When a flieep
is one fhear, as they ex| refs it, it has .two broad teeth
before , when it is two fhear, it will have four j when
three, fix i and when four, eight. Alter this their
mouths begin to break.
The difterence of land makes a very great difference
in the fheep. The fat paftures breed itraight tall fheep,
and the barren hills and downs breed fquare fliort ones j
woods and mountains breed tall and {lender flieep j but
the beft of all are thofe bred upon new-ploughed land
and dry grounds. On the contrary, all wet and moift
lands are bad for fheep, efpecially fuch as are fubjedt to
be overflowed, and to have fand and dirt left on them.
The fait marfhes are, however, an exception to this
general rule, for their faltnefs makes amends for their
moifiure j fait, by reafon of its drying quality, being of
great advantage to flieep.
As to the time of putting the rams to the ewes, the* , r4
farmer muft confider at what time of the fpring his grafs
will be fit to maintain them and their lambs, and whe- be^admit-
ther he has turnips to do it till the grafs comes j for ted to the
very often both the ewes and lambs are deftroyed by ewes,
the want of food ; or if this does not happen, if the
lambs are only {tinted in their growth by it, it is an
accident that they never recover. The ewe goes 20
weeks with lamb, and according to this it is eafy to
calculate the proper time. The belt time for them to
yean is in April, unlefs the owner has very forward
grafs or turnips, or the fheep are field fheep. Where
you have not inclofures to keep them in, then it may be
proper they fhould yean in January, that the lambs may
be ftrong by May-day, and be able to follow the dam
over the fallows and water-furrows j but then the lambs
that come fo early muft have a great deal of care taken
of them, and fo indeed fhould all other lambs at their
firit falling, elfe while they are weak the crows and mag¬
pies will pick their eyes out.
When the flieep are turned into fields of wheat or rye
to feed, it mufl not be too rank at firft, for if it be, it
generally throws them into fcourings. Ewes that are
big fliould be kept but bare, for it is very dangerous to
them to be fat at the time of their bringing forth their
young. They may be well fed, indeed, like cows, a
fortnight beforehand, to put them in heart. Mortimer’s
liufbandry, p. 243.
The
SHE
[ 227 ]
S H E
Sheep.
The feeding fheep with turnips is one great advantage
' to the farmer". When they are made to eat turnips
they foon fatten, but there is fotne difficulty in bringing
this about. JThe old ones always refufe them at full,
and will fometimes faft three or four days, till aimed
famifhed j but the young lambs fall to at once. 1 he
common way, in fome places, of turning a flock of
flieep at large into a field of turnips, is very difadyan-
tageous, for they will thus deflroy as many in a fortnight
as would keep them a whole winter. There are three
other ways of feeding them on this food, all of which
have their feveral advantages.
The firfi way is to divide the land by hurdles, and
allow the ffieep to come upon fuch a portion only at a
time as they can eat in one day, and fo advance the
flieep with ^urcj^es far[her into the ground daily till all be eaten.
Sheep.
IS
The firft
way of
feeding
turnips.
16
The fe¬
cund.
'I • ,
The third,
which is
the belt.
18
Difeafes of
iheep.
This is infinitely better than the former random me¬
thod j hut they never eat them clean even this way, but
leave the bottoms and outfides fcooped in the ground :
the people pull up thefe indeed with iron crooks, and
lay them before the ffieep again, but they are common¬
ly fo fouled with the creature’s dung and urine, and
with the dirt from their feet, that they do not care for
them ; they eat but little of them, and what they do eat
does not nouttffi them like the freflr roots.
The fecond way is by inclofing the ffieep in hurdles,
as in the former; but in this they pull up all the turnips
which they fuppofc the flieep can eat in one day, and
daily remove the hurdles over the ground whence they
have pulled up the turnips: by this means there is no
wafte, and lefs expence, for a perfon may in^ two hours
pull up all thofe turnips ; the remaining {hells of which
would have employed three or four labourers a-day to
get up with their crooks out of the ground trodden
hard by the feet of the flieep ; and the worfl: is, that as
in the method of pulling up firft, the turnips are eaten
up clean, in this way, by the hook, they are wrafled,
the ffieep do not eat any great part of them, and when
the ground comes to be tilled afterwards for a crop of
corn, the fragments of the turnips are feen in fuch quan¬
tities on the furface, that half the crop at lead feems to
have been wafied.
The third manner is to pull up the turnips, and re¬
move them in a cart or waggon to fome other place,
fpreading them on a frefli place every day ; by this me¬
thod the flieep will eat them up clean, both root and
leaves. The great advantage of this method is, when
there is a piece of land not far off which wants dung more
than that where the turnips grew, which perhaps is alio
too wet for the flieep in winter, and then the turnips
will, by the too great moiflure and dirt of the foil,
fometimes fpoil the ffieep, and give them the rot. Yet
fitch ground will often bring forth more and largei
turnips than dry land, and when they are carried off,
and eaten by the ffieep on ploughed land, in dry weather,
and on green fward in wet weather, the ffieep will fuc-
ceed much better ; and the moift foil where the turnips
grew not being trodden by the ffieep, will be much
fitter for a crop of corn than if they had been fed with
turnips on it. The expence of hurdles, and the trouble
of moving them, are faved in this cafe, which will coun¬
terbalance at lead the expence of pulling the turnips
and carrying them to the places where they are to be
eaten. They muft always be carried off for oxen.
The difeafes to which ffieep are fubjeft are thefe,
rot, red-water, foot-rot and hoving, fcab, dunt, rickets,  ,
fly-ilruck, flux, and burfting. Of each of thefe we thall ■r"
give the beft defeription in our power, with the moft
approved remedies. 19
The rot, which is a very pernicious difeafe, has cfLlie rot'
late engaged the attention of feientific farmers. But
neither "its nature nor its caufe has yet been fully af-
certained. Some valuable and judicious obfervations
have, however, been made upen it, which ought to
be circulated, as they may perhaps, in many cafes,
furnifh an antidote for this malignant diilemper, or be
the means of leading others to fome more efficaci¬
ous remedy. Some have fuppofed the rot owing to
the quick growth of grafs or herbs that grow in wet
places. Without premifing, that all bounteous Provi¬
dence has given to every animal its peculiar tafte, by
which it diilinguifhes the food proper tor its. preferva-
tion and fupport, if not vitiated by fortuitous circumllan-
ces, it feems very difficult to difeover on philofophical
principles why the quick growth of grafs thould render
it noxious, or why any herb ffiould at one leafon pro¬
duce fatal effeAs, by the admiffion of pure, water only
into its component parts, which at other times is per-
feflly innocent, although brought to its utmofl ftrength
and maturity by the genial influence of the fun. Be-
fides, the conftant praftice of moft farmers in the king¬
dom, who with the greateft fecurity feed their meadows
in the fpring, when the grafs Ihoots quick and is iull of
juices, militates dire&ly againft this opinion.
Mr Arthur Young aferibes this difeafe to moifture.
In confirmation of this opinion, which has been geneial-
ly adopted, we are informed, in the Bath Society pa¬
pers*, by a correfpondent, that there was a paddock ad-* Vol. I.
joining to his park which had for feveral years cauied art. xWi.
the rot in moft of the ffieep which were put into it.
In 1769 he drained it, and from that time his flieep
were free from this malady. Bat there are fads whicn
render it doubtful that moifture is the foie caufe. W e are
told, the dry limed land in Derbyftv.re will produce the
rot as well as water meadows and ftagnant maiffies ; and
that in fome wet grounds {beep fuftain no injury for
many weeks. ^
Without attempting to enumerate other hypotnefes £ts cauft.f
which the ingenious have formed on t is fubjeft, wre
fliall purfue a different method in order to difeover the
caufe. On diffecling ffieep that die of this dii'order, a
great number of infe£ls called jhties (lee Fasciola)
are found in the liver. That thefe flukes are the caufe
of the rot, therefore, is evident; but to explain how
they come into the liver is not fo eafy. It is probable
that they are fwallowed by the ffieep along with their
food while in the egg ftate. The eggs depofited in
the tender germ are conveyed with the food into the
ftomacb and interlines of the animals, whence they aie
received into the lafteal veffels, carried off in the chyle,
and pafs into the blood ; nor do they meet with any
obftruftion until they arrive at the capillary veffels of
the liver. Here, as the blood filtrates through the ex¬
treme branches, anfwering to thofe of the vena porta
in the human body, the fecerning veffcls are too minute
to admit the impregnated ova, which, adhering to the
membrane, produce thofe animalculae that feed upon
the liver and deflroy the fheep. They much referable
the flat fiffi called plaice, are fometimes as large as a fil-
ver two pence, and are found both in the liver and in
F f 2 the~
Sheep.
ai
and moft
approved
cures.
SHE [228
__ the pipe (anfwering to that of the vena cava') which
conveys the blood from the liver to the heart.
Ihe common and moft obvious objection to that
opinion is, that this infetl is never found but in the li¬
ver, or in feme parts of the vifeera, of fheep that are
difeafed more or lefs; and that they muft therefore be
bred there. But this objeftion will lofe its force, when
we confider that many inlefls undergo feveral changes,
and exift under forms extremely different from each
other. Some of them may therefore appear and be
well known under one lhape, and not known to be the
lame under a lecond or third. The fluke may be the
laft ftate of fome aquatic animal which w’e at prefent
very well know under one or other of its previous
forms.
If tnis be admitted, it is eafy to conceive that Iheep
nray, on wet ground efpecially, take multitudes of
thefe ova or eggs in with their food ; and that the fto-
mach and vifcera of the Iheep being a proper nidus for
tnem, they of courfe hatch, and appearing in their fluke
or lait ftate, feed on the liver of the animal, and occa-
lion this diforder.
11t is a Angular faft, “ that no ewe ever has the rot
wmile flie has a lamb by her fide.” The reafon of this
may be, that the impregnated ovum paffes into the
milk, and never arrives at the liver. The rot is fatal to
Ineep, hares, and rabbits, and fometimes to calves y but
never infelts animals of a larger fize.
Miller fays that parfley is a good remedy for the rot
in (beep. Perhaps a ftrong deco&ion of this plant, or
the oil extrafted from its feeds, might be of fervice.
Salt is alfo a ufeful remedy. It feems to be an ac¬
knowledged faff, that fait marfhes never produce the
rot. Salt indeed is pernicious to moft infetts. Com¬
mon fait and w'ater expel w'orms from the human body j
and fea-weed, if laid in a garden, will drive away infedls j
but if the fait is feparated by fteeping it in the pureft
fpring-water for a few days, it abounds with animalcule
of various fpecies.
Lille, in his book of hufbandry, informs us of a far¬
mer who cured his whole flock of the rot by giving
each ftieep a handful of Spanifti fait for five or fix morn¬
ings fucceflively. The hint was probably taken from
the Spaniards, who frequently give their flreep fait to
keep them healthy. On fome farms perhaps the ut-
moft caution cannot always prevent this diforder. In
w^et and warm feafons the prudent farmer wall remove
his flieep from the lands liable to rot. Thofe who
have it not in their powder to do this may give each
iheep a fpoonful of common fait, with the fame quan¬
tity of flour, in a quarter of a pint of water, once or
twice a-week. At the commencement of the rot the
lame^ remedy given four or five mornings fucceflively
will in all probability effedt a cure. The addition of
the flour and water, it is fuppofed, not only abates the
pungency of the fal.t, but difpofes it to mix with the
chyle in a more gentle and efficacious manner.
A farmer of a confiderable lordfhip in Bohemia vi-
fiting the hot-wells of Carifbad, related how he prefer-
ineep.
1 SHE
ved his flocks of (keep from the mortal diftetnper which
paged in the wet year 1760, of wdiich fo many periihed.
His prefervative was very Ample and very cheap : “ Iffe
fed them every night, when turned under a (lied, cover,
or ftables, with haflied fodder ftraw y and, bv eating it
greedily, they all efcaped.” 6
“ Rcd water is a diforder moft prevalent on wet Red L.
grounds. I have heard ^fays Mr Arthur \roung) that^r.
it has^ fometimes been cured by tapping, as for a drop
fy. 1 his operation is done on one fide of the belly to¬
wards the flank, juft below the wool.
“ Y\\z foot-rot and having, which is very common on p
low fenny grounds, is cured by keeping the part clean toct~rot‘
and lying at reft in a dry pafture.”
I he Jcab is a cutaneous difeafe owing to an impuri-gca^
ty of the blood, and is moft prevalent in wet lands or ^
in rainy leaions. It is cured by tobacco-water, brim-
ftone, and alum, boiled together, and then rubbed over
the flieep. If only partial, lar and greafe may be fuf-
ficient. But the fimpleft and moft efficacious remedy for
this difeafe was communicated to the Society for the
Encouragement of Arts, &c. by Sir Jofeph Banks.
“ Take one pound of quickfilver, half a pound ofRe^Lv je
Venice turpentine, half a pint of oil of turpentine, and commend-*
four pounds of hogs lard (c). Let them be rubbed in a ed by Sir
mortar till the quickfilver is thoroughly incorporated JofePh
with the other ingredients; for the proper mode of do- Banks’
ing which, it may be proper to take the advice, or even
the affiftance, of fome apothecary or other perfon ufed
to make fuch mixtures.
_ “ The method of ufing the ointment is this : Begin¬
ning at the head of the fheep, and proceeding from be¬
tween the. ears along the back to the end of the tail,
the wool is to be divided in a furrow till the fkin can
be touched y and as the furrow is made, the finger
fiightly dipped in the ointment is to be drawn along the
bottom of it, where it will leave a blue ftain on the
fkin and adjoining wool : from this furrow fimilar ones
muft be drawn down the flioulders and thighs to the
legs, as far as they are woolly j and if the animal is
much infetted, two more fhould be drawn along each
fide parallel to that on the back, and one down each
fide between the fore and hind legs.
“ Immediately after being dreffed, it is ufual to turn
the flieep among other flock, without any fear of the
infedion being communicated ; and there is fcarcely an
inftance of a fheep fuffering any injury from the appli¬
cation. In a few days the blotches dry up, the itch¬
ing ceafes, and the animal is completely cured : it is ge¬
nerally, however, thought proper not to delay the ope¬
ration beyond Michaelmas.
“ The hippobofea ovina, called in Lincolnfhire Jheep-
fagg, an animal well known to all fhepherds, which lives
among the wool, and is hurtful to the thriving of fheep
both by the pain its bite occafions and the blood it
fucks, is deftroyed by this application, and the wool is
not at all injured. Our wool-buyers purchafe the fleeces
on which the ftain of the ointment is vifible, rather in
preference to others, from an opinion that the ufe of
it
foi?e »naccountable nnilake the iaft ingredient, the four pounds of hogs lard, is omitted in the receipt
pubhihed in.the Iranfadions of the Society; a circutnftance that might be produdive of bad effeds.—The leaf
winch contained the receipt has fince been cancelled, and a new one printed.
4
*6
The dunt.
Rickets.
iS
Fly-ltruck.
SHE
f 229 ] SHE
it having preferved the animal from being vexed either
with the fcab or faggs, the wool is lefs liable to the de*
lefts of joints or knots ; a fault obferved to proceed
from every fudden flop in the thriving of the animal,
either from want of food or from difeafe.
“ This mode of curing was brought into that part
of Lincolnlhire where my property is ixtuated about 1 2
years ago, by Mr Stephenfon of Mareham, and is now
fo generally received, that the fcab, which ufed to be
the terror of the farmers, and which frequently deter¬
red the more careful of them from taking the advan¬
tage of pafluring their fheep in the fertile and exten-
five commons with which that diftrift abounds, is no
longer regarded with any apprchenfion : by far the molt
of them have their flock anointed in autumn, when
they return from the common, whether they fhow any
fymptoms of fcab or not j and having done fo, conclude
them fafe for fome time from either giving or receiving
infeftion. There are people who employ themfelves
in the bufinefs, and contraft to anoint our large (heep
at five flnliings a feore, infilling for that price the fuc-
cefs of the operation •, that is, agreeing, in cafe many
of the fheep break out afrefh, to repeat the operation
gratis even fomejmonths afterwards.”
The dunt is a diltcmper caufed by a bladder of wa¬
ter gathering in the head. No cure for this has yet
been difcovered.
The rickets is a hereditary difeafe for which no anti¬
dote is known. The firft fymptom is a kind of light-
headednefs, which makes the affefted fheep appear wild¬
er than ufual when the fhepherd or any perfon ap¬
proaches him. He bounces up fuddenly from his lare,
and runs to a diftance, as though he were purfued by
dogs. In the fecond ftage the principal fymptom is
the (beep’s rubbing himfelf againft trees, &c. with fuch
fury as to pull off his wool and tear away his flefh.
“ The diftreffed animal has now a violent itching in his
Ikin, the effeft of a highly inflamed blood ; but it does
not appear that there is ever any cutaneous eruption or
falutary critical difcharge. In fhort, from all circum-
flances, the fever appears now to be at its height.”—
The laft flage of this difeafe “ feems only to be the pro¬
gress of diffblution, after an unfavourable crifis. The
poor animal, as condemned by Nature, appears flupid,
ivalks irregularly (whence probably the name rickets'),
generally lies, and eats little : thefe fymptoms increafe
in degree till death, which follows a general confump-
tion, as appears upon difieftion of the carcafe; the
juices and even folids having fuffered a general diffolu-
tion.
In order to difcover the feat and nature of this dif¬
eafe, fheep that die of it ought to be diffefted. This
is faid to have been done by one gentleman, Mr Beal;
and he found in the brain or membranes adjoining a
maggot about a quarter of an inch long, and of a
brownifh colour. A few experiments might eafily de¬
termine this faft.
The. Jly-J}ruck is cured by clipping the wool off as
far as infefted, and rubbing the parts dry with lime or
wood-afhes 5 curriers oil will heal the ivounds, and pre¬
vent their being flruck any more ; or they may be cu¬
red with care, without clipping, with oil of turpentine,
which will kill all the vermin where it goes j but the
former is the fureft way.
The flux is another difeafe to which (beep are fub-
jeft. The bed remedy is faid to be, to houfe the flieep _ Sheep,
immediately when this diftemper appears, to keep them ''"’’""v ^
very warm, and feed them on dry hay, giving them fre¬
quent gliders of warm milk and water. The caufe of
that diftemper is either their feeding on wet lands, or
on grafs that is become mofiy by the lands having
been fed many years without being ploughed. When
the farmer perceives his ftieep-walks to become moffy,
or to produce bad grafs, he ftrould either plough or ma¬
nure with hot lime, making kilns either very near or
in the fheep walks, becaufe the hotter the lime is put
on, the fweeter the grafs comes up, and that early in
the year. 30
Burfling, or as it Is called in fome places the blafl, at- And burfti
tacks fheep when driven into freflr grafs or young clo-'nS*
ver. They overeat themfelves, foam at the mouth,
fwell exceedingly, breathe very quick and fhort, then
jump up, and inrtantly fall down dead. In this cafe,
the only chance of faving their life is by ftabbing them
in the maw with an inftrument made for the purpofe.
The inftrument is a hollow tube, with a pointed wea.-
pon paffing through it. A hole is made with the
pointed weapon j which is immediately withdrawn, and
the hole is kept open by inferting the tube till the wind
is difeharged. -j.
Sheep are infefted with worms in their nofe called Account o&
ceflrus oves, and produced from the egg of a large two- the nofe-
winged fly. The frontal finufes above the nofe in flieep
and other animals are the places where thefe worms live ^
and attain their full growth. Thefe finufes are always
full of a foft white matter, which furniihes thefe worms
with a proper nourilhment, and are fufficiently large
for their habitation j and when they have here acquired
their deftined growth, in which they are fit to undergo
their changes for the fiy-ftate, they leave their old habi¬
tation, and, falling to the earth, bury themfelves there ;
and when thefe are hatched into flies, the female, when
fhe has been impregnated by the male, knows that the
nofe of a flieep or other animal is the only place for her
to depofit her eggs, in order to their coming to maturi¬
ty. Mr Vallifnieri, to whom the. world owes fo many
difeoveries in the infeft clafs, is the firft who has given
any true account of the origin of thefe worms. But
though their true hiftory had been till that time un¬
known, the creatures themfelves were very early difeo-
vered, and many ages fince were, efteemed great medi¬
cines in epilepfies.
The fly produced from this worm has all the time of
its life a very lazy difpofition, and does not like to
make any ufe either of its legs or wings. Its head and
corfelet together are about as long as its body, which
is compofed of five rings, ftreaked on the back; a pale
yellow and brown are there difpofed in irregular fpots ;
the belly is of the fame colours, but they are there more
regularly difpofed, for the brown here makes three lines*
one in the middle, and one on each fide, , and all the
intermediate fpaces are yellow. The wings are-nearly oF
the fame length with the body, and are a little inclined
in their pofition, fo as to lie upon the body : they do
not, however, cover if j but a naked fpace is left between
them. The ailerous or petty wings which are found un¬
der each of the wings are of a whitiih colour, and per-
feftly cover the balancers, fo that they are not to be
feen without lifting up thefe.
The fly will live two months aftef it is firft produ¬
ced,
39
Flux,
SHE [ 230 ] SHE
Sheep ced, but will take no nourilbinent of any kind j and pof-
fibly it may be of the lame nature with the butterflies,
1 ^t— • which never take any food during the whole time of
their living in that ftate. Reaumur, Hift. Inf. vol. iv.
32 p. 55 2, &c.
Compofi- 0 hnd a proper compolition for marking (beep is
tion for a matter of great importance, as great quantities of wool
marking are every year rendered ufelefs by the pitch and tar
ee^’ with which they are ufually marked. The requilite
qualities for fuch a compofition are, that it be cheap,
that the colour be llrong and lading, fo as to bear the
changes of weather, and not to injure the wool. Dr
Lewis recommends for this purpofe melted tallow', with
fo much charcoal in fine powder llirred into it as is fuf-
ficient to make it of a full black colour, and of a thick
confidence. This mixture, being applied warm with a
marking iron, on pieces of flannel, quickly fixed or har¬
dened, bore moderate rubbing, refided the fun and rain,
and yet could be walhed out freely w'ith foan, or ley,
or dale urine. In order to render it dill more durable,
and prevent its being rubbed off, with the tallow may
be melted an eighth, fixth, or fourth, of its weight of
tar, which will readily w7alh out along with it from the
Wool. Lewis’s Com. Phil. Techn. p. 361.
SHEEP-Stealing. See Thkft.
SHEERING, in the fea-language. When a (hip is
not fleered fteadily, they fay flie flteers, or goes (heer-
ing ; or when, at anchor, (he goes in and out by means
of the current of the tide, they alfo fay die flieers.
SHEERNESS, a fort in Kent, feated on the point
where the river Medway falls into the Thames. It was
built by King Charles II. after the infult of the Dutch,
who burnt the men of war at Chatham. The buildings
belonging to it, in which the officers lodge, make a pret¬
ty little neat town ; and there is alfo a yard and a dock,
a chapel and a chaplain. Mr Lyons, who failed with
the honourable Captain Phipps in his voyage towards
the pole, fixed the longitude of Sheernefs to o. 48'. E.
its latitude 510 25'.
SHEERS, a name given to an engine ufed to hoift
or difplace the lower mads of a flu’p. The fheers em¬
ployed for this purpofe in the royal navy are compofed
of feveral long mads, whofe heels reft upon the fide of
the hulk, and having their heads declining outward
from the perpendicular, fo as to hang over the veffei
whofe mafts are to be fixed or difplaced. The tackles,
which extend from the head of the maft to the flieer-
beads, are intended to pull in the latter toward the maft-
head, particularly when they are charged with the
weight of a maft after it is raifed out of any fhip,
which is pei formed by ftrong tackles depending from
the flieer-heads. The effort of thefe tackles is produced
by two capfterns, fixed on the deck for this purpofo.
In merchant {hips this machine is compofed of two
mafts or props, ere6fed in the fame veffei wherein the
maft is to be planted, or from whence it is to be remo¬
ved. The lower ends of thefe props reft on the oppo-
fite fides of the deck, and their upper parts are faflened
acrofs, fo as that a tackle which hangs from the in-
terfeflion may be almoft perpendicularly above the
ftatlon of the maff to which the mechanical powers are
applied. Thefe fheers are fecured by flays which ex¬
tend forward and aft to the oppofite extremities of the
veffel.
Sheers, aboard a {hip, an engine ufed to hoift or She*!
difplace the lower mafts of a fhip. 11
SHEE I -lead. See Plumbery. ,
Sheet, in fea-language, a rope faftened to one or
both the lower corners of a fail, to extend and retain it
in a particular ftation. When a fhip fails with a lateral
wind, the lower corner of the main and fere fail are faf¬
tened by a tack and a fheet ; the former being to wind¬
ward, and the latter to leeward ; the tack, however, is
entirely diffufed with a ftern wind, whereas the fail is
never ipread without the affiftance of one or both of the
fheets. The ftay-fails and ftudding fails have only one
tack and one flieet tack : the ftay-fail tacks are always
faftened fonvard, and tire fheet drawn aft \ but the Hu el¬
ding-fail tack draws the under clue of the fail to the ex¬
tremity of the boom, whereas the fheet is employed to
extend the inmoft.
SHEFFIELD, a town in the weft riding of York-
fhire, about 162 miles from London, is a large, thri¬
ving town on the borders of Derbyfhire, with a popu¬
lation of 31,314 fouls •, has a fine flone bridge over
the Don, and another over the Sheaf, and a church
built in the reign of Henry I. It had a caftle built in
the reign of Henry III. in which, or elfe in the manor-
houfe of the Park, Mary queen of Scots was prifoner
16 or 17 years ; but after the death of Charles I. it was
with feveral others, by order of parliament demoliftied.
In 1673 an hofpital was erefted here, and endowed with
200I. a-year. There is a charily-fchool for 30 boys,
and another for 30 girls. 1 his town has been noted fe¬
veral hundred years for cutlers and fmiths manufa&ures,
which ■were encouraged and advanced by the neighbour¬
ing mines of iron, particularly for files, and knives or
whittles ; for the laft of which efpecially it has been a
ftaple for above 300 years •, and it is reputed to excel
Birmingham in thefe wares, as much as it is furpaffed
by it in locks, hinges, nails, and polifhed ftcel. The firft
mills in England for turning grindflones were alfo fet up
here. The houfes look black from the continual finoke
of the forges. Here are 600 mafter cutlers, incorporated
by the ftyle of the Cutlers of Hallavijhire (of which this
is reckoned the chief town), who employ no lefs than
40,000 perfons in the iron manufaPuires; and each of
the mailers gives a particular ftamp to his wares. There
is a large market on Tuefday for many commodities,
but efpecially for corn, which is bought up here for the
whole weft riding, Derbyfhire. and Nottingharnfhire.
It has fairs on Tuefday after Trinity-Sunday, and No¬
vember 28. In the new market-place, eredled by the
duke of Norfolk, the fhambles are built upon a moll
excellent plan, and ftrongly inclofed. There are feveral
other new good buildings, fuch as a large and elegant
oftagon chapel belonging to the hofpital or alms-
houfes j likewife a good affembly-room and theatre. We
mufl not omit the large fleam engine, lately finiftied,
for the purpofe of polifhing and grinding the various
forts of hardware. The parifli being very large, as well
as populous, Mary I. incorporated 12 of the chief in¬
habitants, and their fucceffors for ever, by the ftyle of
the Twelve Capital Burgrjfes of Sheffield, empowering
them to elefl and ordain three priefls to affift the vicar,
who were to be paid cut of certain lands and rents which
flic gave out of the crown •, and fince this fettlement two
more chapels have been built in two hamlets of this pa-
rifh.
2
SHE [ 231 ] . SHE
Sheffield, rifh, which are ferved by two of the afuftant?, while the
—v—~ third, in his turn, helps the vicar in his parifh-church.
James I. founded a free grammar-fchool here, and ap¬
pointed 13 fchool burgeffes to manage the revenue, and
appoint the mailer and ufher. A new chapel was built
lately by the contributions of the people of the town
and of the neighbouring nobility and gentry W ater
is conveyed by pipes into Sheffield, whofe inhabitants
pay but a moderate rent for it. In the neighbourhood
there are fome mines of alum. I he remains of the Ho¬
man fortification between this town and Rotheram,
which ii fix miles low'er down the river, are hill vifible
and here alfo is.the famous trench of five miles long, by
fome called Devil's or Dane's Bank, and by others
Kemp Bank and Temple's Bank. Weft Long. x. 29.
N. Lat. 13. 20.
Sheffield, John, duke of Buckinghamfhire, an emi¬
nent writer of the 17th and 18th century, of great per-
fonal bravery, and an able minifter of ftate, was born
about 1650. He loft his father at nine years of age ;
and his mother marrying Lord Offulfton, the care of his
education was left entirely to a governor, who did not
greatly improve him in his ftudies. Finding that he was
deficient in many parts of literature, he refolyed to de¬
vote a certain number of hours every day to his ftudies }
and thereby improved himfelf to the degree of learning
he afterwards attained. Though poffelTed of a good
eftate, he did not abandon himfelf to pleafure and indo¬
lence, but entered a volunteer in the fecond Dutch war ;
and accordingly was in that famous naval engagement
where the duke of York commanded as admiral: on
which occafion his lordfhip behaved lo gallantly, that
lie wTas appointed commander of the Royal Catharine.
He afterward made a campaign in the french fervice
under M. de Turenne. As Tangier was in danger of
being taken by the Moors, he offered to head the
forces which were fent to defend it ; and accordingly
was appointed to command them. He was then earl
of Mulgrave, and one of the lords of the bed-chamber
to King Charles II. The Moors retired on the ap¬
proach of his majefty’s forces j and the refult of the ex¬
pedition w^as the blowing up of Tangier. He continu¬
ed in feveral great polls during the Ihort reign of King
James II. till that unfortunate prince w'as dethroned.
Lord Mulgrave, though he paid his refpefls to King
William before he wTas advanced to the throne, yet
did not accept of any poll in the government till fome
years after. In the fixth year of William and Mary
he wras created marquis of Normanby in the county of
Lincoln. Pie was one of the moft a&ive and zealous
oppofers of the bill which took aw^ay Sir John Fen¬
wick’s life; and exerted the utmoft vigour in carrying
through the Treafon Bill, and the bill for Iriennial Par¬
liaments. He enjoyed fome confiderable polls under King
William, and enjoyed much of his favour and confidence.
In 1702 he was fworn lord privy-feal ; and in the fame
year was appointed one of the commiffioners to treat of
an union between England and Scotland. In 1 703 he
was cieated duke of Normanby, and foon after duke of
Buckinghamlhire. In 1711 he was made llew’ard of her
inajelly’s houfehold, and prefidentof the council. During
Queen Anne’s reign he was but once out of employ¬
ment ; and then he voluntarily refigned, being attached
to what were called the Tory principles. Her majefty
offered to make him lord chancellor; but he declined the Sheffield
office. He was inftrumental in the change of the mi- t..
niftry in 1710. A circumftance that retlefls the high- L 1
eft honour on him is, the vigour with which he added in
favour of the unhappy Catalans, who afterward were fo
inhumanly facrificed. He was fuwived by only one le¬
gitimate Ion (who died at Rome in 1735) j but left fe¬
veral natural children. Fie died in 1721. Fie was ad¬
mired by the poets of his age ; by Dryden, Prior, and
Garth. His Effay on Poetry was applauded by Addi-
fon, and his Rehearfal is ftill read wfith pleafure. His
writings were fplendidly printed in 1723, in twm vo¬
lumes 410 ; and have fince been reprinted in 1729, in
tw'o volumes 8vo. The firrt contains his poems on va¬
rious fuhjedls ; the fecond, his profe works ; which con-
fift of hiftorical memoirs, fpeeches in parliament, charac¬
ters, dialogues, critical obfervations, effays, and letters.
It may be proper to obferve, that the edition of 1729 is
caftrated ; fome particulars relating to the revolution in
that of 1723 having given offence.
SHEFFIELDIA, a genus of plants belonging to the
clafs of pentandria, and to the order of monogynia. The
corolla is bell-fhaped ; the filaments are ten ; of which
every fecond is barren. The capfule confifts of one cell,
which has four valves. There is only one fpecies, the
repens, a native of New Zealand.
SHEIBON, a diftritt in Africa, lying on the fouth-
eaft of the kingdom of Dar-Fur, wffiere much gold is
found both in duft and in fmall pieces. The idolatrous
natives and favages collect the duft in quills of the
oftiich and vulture, and in that condition difpofe of it
to the merchants. On difeovering a large piece of gold,
they kill a ftieep on it before it is removed. Their
marriage is a fimple agreement to cohabit. The flaves
bought in great numbers from this quarter, are partly
prifoners of war among themfelves, and partly feduced
by treachery, and fold. In times of fcarcity, it is faid,
a father has been known to fell his children.
There are fome Mahometans at Sheibon, who wrear
clothing, and live among the idolaters; but it is not faid
whether they are Arabs or not.
SHEIK, in the oriental cuftoms, the perfon who
has the care of the mofques in Egypt; his duty is the
fame as that of the imams at Conftantinople. There
are more or fewer of thefe to every mofque, according
to its fize or revenue. One of thefe is head over the
reft, and anfwers to a parilh-prieft with us ; and has
under him, in large mofques, the readers, and people
who cry out to go to prayers ; but in fmall mofques the
ftieik is obliged to do all this himfelf. In fuch it is
their bufinefs to open the mofque, to cry to prayers,
and to begin their ftiort devotions at the head of the
congregation, who ftand rank and file in great order,
and make all their motions together. Every Friday
the (heik makes an harangue to his congregation.
SHEIK-Bellet, the name of an officer in the Oriental
nations. In Egypt the ffieik-bellet is the head of a
city, and is appointed by the pacha. The bufinefs of
this officer is to take care that no innovations be made
wffiich may be prejudicial to the Porte, and that they
fend no orders which may hurt the liberties of the
people. But all his authority depends on his credit and
intereft, not his office : for the government of Egypt is
of fuch a kind, that often the people of the leaft power
^SheiMs
II
Shenan.
SHE f 232
by their pofts have the greateft influence : and a caia of
the janizaries or Arabs, and fometimes one of their
meaneft officers, an oda-bafha, finds means, by his parts
and abilities, to govern all things,
SHEILDS. See Shields.
SHEKEL, the name of a weight and coin current
amoug the ancient Jews. Dr Arbuthnot makes the
weight of the ffiekel equal to 9 pennyweights 2* grains
Troy weight; and the value equal to 2s. 3Id. Sterling.
The golden fhekel was worth 11. 16s. 6d,
SHELDRAKE. See Anas, Ornithology Index.
SHELF, among miners, the fame with what they
otherwife call fajl ground, or fajl country ; being that
part of the internal flrufture of the earth wdiich they
find lying even and in an orderly manner, and evidently
retaining its primitive form and fituation.
SHELL, in Natural Hijlory, a hard, and, as it were,
ftony covering, with which certain animals are defend¬
ed, and thence called Jhell-Jifh. For the claffification
and hiftory, fee Conchology.
Shells, in Gunnery, are hollow iron balls to throw
Out of mortars or howitzers, with a fufe-hole of about
an inch diameter, to load them with powder, and t®
receive the fufe. The bottom, or part oppofite to the
fufe, is made thicker than the reft, that the fufe may
fall uppermoft. But in fmall elevations this does not
always happen^ nor indeed is it neceffary ; for, let the
ftiell fall as it will, the fufe fets fire to the powrder with¬
in, wffiich burfts the ftiell, and caufes great devaftation.
The ftiells had much better be of an equal thicknefs; for
then they burft into more pieces.
Mejfage SHELLS, are nothing more than howitz-
fliells, in the infide of which a letter or other papers are
put; the fufe hole is flopped up with wood or cork, and
the ftiells are fired out of a royal or howitz, either into
a garrifon or camp. It is fuppofed, that the perfon to
■whom the letter is fent knows the time, and accordingly
appoints a guard to look out for its arrival.
SHELL-Fifh. Thefe animals are in general ovipa¬
rous, very few inftances having been found of fuch as
are viviparous. Among the oviparous kinds, anato-
mifts have found that fome fpecies are of different fexes,
in the different individuals of the fame fpecies ; but others
are hermaphrodites, every one being in itfelf both male
and female. In both cafes their increafe is very nume¬
rous, and fcarce inferior to that of plants, or of the
moft fruitful of the infedl clafs. The eggs are very
fmall, and are hung together in a fort of clufters by
means of a glutinous humour, which is always placed
about them, and is of the nature of the jelly of frog’s
fpawn. By means of this, they are not only kept to¬
gether in the parcel, but the whole clufter is faftened
to the rocks, (hells, or other folid fubftances ; and thus
they are preferved from being driven on (bore by the
waves, and left where they cannot fucceed.
SHELL-Gold. See Gold.
SHELTIE, a fmall but ftrong kind of horfe, fo
called from Shetland, or Zetland, where they are pro¬
duced.
SHELVES, in fea-language, a general name given
to any dangerous (hallows, fand-banks, or rocks, lying
immediately under the furface of the w^ater, fo as to in¬
tercept any (hip in her paffage, and endanger her de-
.ftrudlion.
SHENAN. See Dyeing of Leather.
] SHE
SHENSTONE, William, an admired Englifit Shenfoue.
poet, the eldeft fon of a plain country gentleman, who
farmed his own eftate in Shropftiire, was born in No¬
vember 1714. He learned to read of an old dame,
whom his poem of the “ School-miftrefs” has deliver¬
ed to pofterity ; and foon received fuch delight from
books, that he was always calling for new entertain¬
ment, and expected that, when any of the family went
to market, a newr book ffiould be brought him, which,
when it came, was in fondnefs carried to bed, and laid
by him. It is faid, that when his requeft had been ne-
gledted, his mother wrapped up a piece of wood of the
fame form, and pacified him for the night. As he
grew older, he went for a while to the grammar-fchool
in Hales-Owen, and was placed afterwards with Mr
Crumpton, an eminent fchool-mafter at Solihul, wdiere
he diftinguiflied himfelf by the quicknefs of his progrefs.
When he was young (June 1724), he was deprived of his
father ; and foon after (Auguft 1726) of his grandfa¬
ther ; and was, with his brother, who died afterwards
unmarried, left to the care of his. grandmother, who
managed the eftate. From fchool he wTas fent, in 1732,
to Pembroke college in Oxford, a fociety which for half
a century has been eminent for Englifh poetry and ele¬
gant literature. Here it appears that he found delight
and advantage; for he continued his name there ten
years, though he took no degree. After the firft four
years he put on the civilian’s gown, but without (howT-
ing any intention to engage in the profeffion. About
the time when he wrent to Oxford, the death of his
grandmother devolved his affairs to the care of the
reverend Mr Dolman, of Brome, in Staffordlhire,
whofe attention he always mentioned with gratitude.
*—At Oxford he applied to Englifti poetry ; and,
I737> publiftied a fmall Mifcellany, without his
name. He then for a time wandered about, to ac¬
quaint himfelf with life, and w?as fometimes at Lon¬
don, fometimes at Bath, or any place of public refort ;
but he did not forget his poetry. He publiftied, in
1740, his “ Judgement of Hercules,” addreffed to Mr
Lyttleton, whofe intereft he fupported with great warmth
at an eleftion ; this was two years afterwards followed
by the “ School-miftrefs.” Mr Dolman, to whofe care
he was indebted for his eafe and leifure, died in 1745,
and the care of his fortune now fell upon himfelf. He
tried to efcape it a while, and lived at his houfe with his
tenants, who were diftantly related ; but, finding that
imperfedl poffeffion inconvenient, he took the whole
eftate into his own hands, an event which rather im¬
proved its beauty than increafed its produce. Now be¬
gan his delight in rural pleafures, and his paffion of ru¬
ral elegance ; but in time his expences occafioned cla¬
mours that overpowered the lamb’s bleat and the lin¬
net’s fong, and his groves were haunted by beings very
different from fauns and fairies. He fpent his eftate in
adorning it, and his death was probably haftened by his
anxieties. He was a lamp that fpent its oil in blazing.
It is faid, that if he had lived a little longer, he would
have been affifted by a penfion ; fuch bounty could not
have been more properly bellowed, but that it wTas ever
afked is not certain ; it is too certain that it never was
enjoyed.—He died at the Leafowes, of a putrid fever,
about five on Friday morning, Feb. 11. 1763 ; and was
buried by the fide of his brother, in the churchyard of
Hales-Owen.
In
Shenftone
n
Sheridan.
SHE
In his private opinions, our author
particular left, and hated all religious difputes. Ten-
dernefs, in every fenfe of the word, was his peculiar
characteriftic ; and his friends, domellics, and poor
neighbours, daily experienced the effedts of his benevo¬
lence. This virtue he carried to an excefs that feemed
to border upon weaknefs ; yet if any of his friends
treated him ungeneroufly, he was not eafily reconciled.
On fuch occafions, however, he ufed to fay, “ I never
will be a revengeful enemy $ but I cannot, it is not in
my nature, to be half a friend.” He was no economill;
for the generofity of his temper prevented his paying a
proper regard to the ufe of money : he exceeded there¬
fore the bounds of his paternal fortune. But, if we
confider the perfect paradife into which he had con¬
verted his ellate, the hofpitality with which he lived,
his charities to the indigent, and all out of an eftate that
did not exceed 300I. a-year, one Ihould rather wonder
that he left any thing behind him, than blame his want
of economy : he yet left more than fufficient to pay all
his debts, and by his will appropriated his whole eftate
to that purpofe. Though he had a high opinion of
many of the fair fex, he forbore to marry. A paffion
he entertained in his youth was with difficulty furmount-
ed. The lady was the fubje£l of that admirable pafto-
ral, in four parts, which has been fo univerfally read
and admired, and which, one would have thought,
mull have foftened the proudeft and moft obdurate
heart. His works have been publiffied by Mr Dodlley,
in 3 vols 8vo. The firft volume contains his poetical
works, .which are particularly diftinguifhed by an ami¬
able elegance and beautiful fimplicity ; the fecond vo¬
lume contains his profe works; the third his letters, &c.
Biog. DiB.
SHEPPEY, an ifland at the mouth of the river
Medway, about 20 miles in circumference. It is fepa-
rated from the main land by a narrow channel; and has
a fertile foil, which feeds great flocks of ffieep. The
borough-town of Queenborough is feated thereon ; be-
fides which it has feveral villages.
SHERARDIA, a genus of plants belonging to the
telrandria clafs, and in the natural method ranking un¬
der the 47th order, Stellatce. See Botany Index.
SHERBET, or SherBIT, a compound drink, firft
brought into England from Turkey and Perfia, conlift-
ing of water, lemon-juice, and fugar, in which are dif-
folved perfumed cakes made of excellent Damafcus fruit,
containing an infufion of fome drops of rofe water.
Another kind of it is made of violets, honey, juice of
raifins, &c.
SHERIDAN, Thomas, D. D. the intimate friend
of Dean Swift, is faid by Shield, in Cibber’s “ Lives of
the Poets,” to have been born about 1684, in the
county of Cavan, where, according to the fame autho¬
rity, his parents lived in no very elevated ftate. They
are defcribed as being unable to afford their fon the ad¬
vantages of a liberal education ; but he, being obferved
to give early indications of genius, attracted the notice
of a friend to his family, who fent him to the college of
Dublin, and contributed towards his fupport while he
remained there. He afterwards entered into orders, and
fet up a fchool in Dublin, which long maintained a
very high degree of reputation, as well for the attention
beftowed on the morals of the fcholars as for their pro¬
ficiency in literature. So great was the eftimation in
Vol. XIX. Part I.
[ 233 ] SHE
adhered to no which this feminary was held, that it is afferted to
have produced in fome years the fum of loocl. It
does not appear that he had anv confiderable prefer¬
ment; but his intimacy with Swift, in 1725, procured
for him a living in the fouth of Ireland w'orth about
150I. a-year, which he went to take pofieffion of,
and, by an aft of inadvertence, deftroyed all his future
expeftations of riftng in the church ; for being at Corke
on the 1 ft of Auguft, the anniverfary of King George’s
birth-day, he preached a fermon, wffiich had for its
text, “ Sufficient for the day is the evil thereof.”
On this being known, he wras ftruck out of the lift
of chaplains to the lord lieutenant, and forbidden the
caftle.
This living Dr Sheridan afterwards changed for that
of Dunboyne, which, by the knavery of the farmers,
and pow-er of the gentlemen in the neighbourhood, fell
fo lowr as Sol. per annum. He gave it up for the free
fchool of Cavan, where he might have lived well in fo
cheap a country on 8cl. a-year falary, befides his fcho¬
lars ; but the air being, as he faid, too moift and un-
wholefome, and being difgufted with fome perfons who
lived there, he fold the fchool for about 400I. ; and ha¬
ving foon fpent the money, he fell into bad health, and
died Sept. 10. 1738, in his 55th year.
Lord Corke has given the following charafter of him:
“ Dr Sheridan u^as a fchool-mafter, and in many in-
ftances perfeftly vHl adapted for that ttation. He w^as
deeply verfed in the Greek and Roman languages, and
in their cuftoms and antiquities. He had that kind of
good nature which abfence of mind, indolence of bo¬
dy, andfcareleffnefs of fortune, produce ; and although
not over ftrift in his owm conduft, yet he took care of
the morality of his fcholars, whom he fent to the univer-
fity remarkably well founded in all kinds of claffical
learning, and not ill inftrufted in the focial duties of
life. He was flovenly, indigent, and cheerful. He
knew books much better than men ; and he knew the
value of money leaft of all. In this fituation, and with
this difpofition, Swift faftened upon him as upon a prey
with which he intended to regale himfelf whenever his
appetite fliould prompt him.” His Lordffiip then
mentions the event of the unlucky fermon, and adds:
“ This ill-ftarred, good-natured, improvident man, re¬
turned to Dublin, unhinged from all favour at court,
and even baniffied from the caftle. But ftill he remain¬
ed a punfter, a quibbler, a fiddler, and a wit. Not a
day paffed without a rebus, an anagram, or a madrigal.
His pen and his fiddleftick were in continual motion ;
and yet to little or no purpofe, if we may give credit
to the following verfes, which fhall ferve as the conclu-
fion of his poetical charafter :
“ With mufic and poetry equally blefs’d,
“ A bard thus Apollo moft humbly addrefs’d ;
“ Great author of poetry, mufic, and light,
“ Inftrufted by thee, I both fiddle and wwite ;
“ Yet unheeded I fcrape, or I fcribble all day,
“ My tunes are neglefted, my verfe flung away.
“ Thy fubftitute here, Vice-Apollo difdains
“To vouch for my numbers, or lift to my ftrains.
“ Thy manual fign he refufes to put
“To the airs I produce from the pen or the gut:
“ Be thou then propitious, great Phoebus, and grant
“ Relief, or reward, to my merit or want.
Gg
Sheridan.
“ Tho*
Sheridan,
Sheriff.
'Blackjt.
Gotnment.
vol. i.
P- 33P-
S H E r 234. j S H E
<i Tlio’ tlic Dean and Delany tranfcendenlly (liine,
“ O ! brighten one folo or fonnet of mine :
“ Make one v;ork immortal, ’tis all I requeft.
“ Apollo look’d pleas’d, and refolving to jeft,
“ Replied—Honell friend, I’ve confider’d ypur cafe,
“ Nor diflike your unmeaning and innocent lace.
“ Your petition I grant, the boon is not great,
“ Your works fir all continue, and here’s the receipt:
“ Qn rondeaus hereafter your fiddle-firings fpend,
“ Write verfes in circles, they never flrall end.”
« One of the volumes of Swift’s mifcellanies confifls
almofl entirely of letters between him and the Dean.
He publifhed a profe tranflation of Perfius ; to which
he added the bed notes of former editors, together with
many judicious ones of his own. Phis work was print¬
ed at London, 1739, ini 2mo. Biog. DiB.
Sheridan, Mrs Frances, wife to I homas Sheridan,
M. A. was born in Ireland about the year 1724, but
dcfcended from a good Englifh family which had remo¬
ved thither. Her maiden name was Chamberlaine, and
flie was grand-daughter of Sir Oliver Chamberlaine.
The firft literary performance by wdiich fhe diftinguifh-
td herfelf was a little pamphlet at the time of a violent
party-difpute relative to the theatre, in winch Mr She¬
ridan had newly embarked his fortune. So w'ell-timed
a work exxiting the attention of Mr Sheridan, he by
an accident difcovered his fair patronefs, to whom he
was foon afterwards married. She was a perfon of the
mod amiable charafter in every relation of life, with the
mod engaging manners. After lingering fome years
in a very weak date of health, die died at Blois, in tne
fouth of France, in the year 1767. Her “ Sydney
Biddulph” may be ranked with the fird produ&ions of
that clafs in ours or in any other language. She alfo
wrote a little romance in one volume called Nourjafiad,
in which there is a great deal of imagination produftive
of an admirable moral. And die was the authorefs of
twro comedies, ,l The Difcovery” and “ I he Dupe.”
SHERIFF, an officer, in each county in England,
nominated by the king, inveded with a judicial and
mimderial power, and who takes place of every noole-
man in the county during the time of his office.
The fheriff is an odicer of very great antiquity in
this kingdom, his name being derived from two Saxon
wmrds, fignifying the reeve, bailiff, or officer of the
dure. He is called in Latin vice-comes, as being the
deputy of the earl or comes, to whom the cudody of
the diire is faid to have been committed at the fird di-
vifion of this kingdom into counties. But the earls, in
procefs of time, by rcafon of their high employments
and attendance on the king's peifon, not being able to
trail fa £t the budnefs of the county, were delivered of
that burden ; referving to themfelves the honour, but
the labour wTas laid on the ffieriff. So that now the die-
riff does all the king’s budnefs in the county ; and though
he be dill called vice-comes, yet he is entirely indepen¬
dent of, and not fubjeft to, the earl the king, by his
letters patent, committing cuffiodiam conutatus to the
dieriff, and to him alone.
Sheriffs were formerly chofen by the inhabitants of
the feveral counties. In conbrmation of wffiich it was
ordained, by datute 28 Edw. I. c. 8. that the people
fhould have an eledlion of fheriffs in every diire where the
fhrievalty is not of inheritance. For anciently in feme
counties the fherift's were hereditary ) as wre apprehend Sheriff,
they were in Scotland till the datute 20 Geo. II. c. 43 ;v——y——
and dill continue in the county of Wedmoreland to this
day j the city of London having alfo the inheritance of
the fhrievalty of Middlefex veded in their body by char¬
ter. The reafon of thefe popular eledtions is affigned
in the fame datute, c. 13. “ that the commons might
choofe fuch as would not be a burden to them.” And
herein appears plainly a drong trace of the democrati-
cal part of our conditution ; in which form of govern¬
ment it is an indifpenfable requidte, that the people
fhould choofe their own magidrates. This eledlion
was in all probability not abfolutely veded in the com¬
mons, but required the royal approbation. For in the
Gothic conditution, the judges of their county courts
(which office is executed by the fheriff) were elecled
by the people, but confirmed by the king: and the
form of their eledlion was thus managed j the people,
or incoUe territorii, chofe twelve electors, and they no¬
minated three perfons, ex quibus rex unum cctifirmabal.
But, with us in England, thefe popular eleftions, grow¬
ing tumultuous, were put an end to by the datute 9.
Edw. II. d. 2. which enafted, that the fheriffs diould
from thenceforth be affigned by the chancellor, trea-
furer, and the judges; as being perlbns in whom the
fame trud might with confidence be repofed. By da~
tutes 14 Edw. III. c. 7. 23 Hen. VI. c. 8. and 21
Hen. VIII. c. 20. the chancellor, treafurer, prefident
of the king’s council, chief judices, and chief baron,
are to make this eleftion •, and that on the morrow' of
All Souls, in the exchequer. And the king’s letters
patent, appointing the newr flieriffs, ufed commonly to
bear date the fixth day of November. The datute of
Cambridge, 12 Ric. II. c. 2. ordains, that the chan¬
cellor, treafurer, keeper of the privy feal, deward of the
king’s houfe, the king’s chamberlain, clerk of the rolls,
the judices of the one bench and the other, barons of
the exchequer, and all other that fhall be called to or¬
dain, name, or make judices of the peace, ffieriffs, and
other officers of the king, diall be fworn to aft indiffe¬
rently, and to name no man that fueth to be put in of¬
fice, but fuch only as they drall judge to be the bed
and mod diffident. And the cuflom now' is (and has
been at lead ever fince the time of Fortefcue, who was
chief judice and chancellor to Henry the fixth), that
all the judges, together with the other great officers,
meet in the exchequer chamber on the morrow of All
Souls yearly, (which day is now' altered to the morrow
of St Martin, by the lad aft for abbreviating Michael¬
mas term), and then and there propofe three perfons to
the king, who afterwards appoints one of them to be
dieiiff." This cudom of the twelve judges propofing
three perfons feems borrowed from the Gothic condi¬
tution before-mentioned : with this difference, that among
the Goths the 12 nominors were fird elefted by the peo¬
ple themfelves. And this ufage of ours, at its fird in-
troduftion, there is rfeafon to believe, was founded up¬
on fome datute, though not now to be found among cur
printed laws 5 fird, becaufe it is materially different from
the direftion of all the datutes before-mentioned > which
it is hard to conceive that the judges would have coun¬
tenanced by their concurrence, or that Fortefcue would
have inferted in his bock, unlefs by the authority of
fome datute ; and alfo, becaufe a datute is exprefsly
referred to in the record, which Sir Edward Coke
SHE l 2
tells us he tranfcribed from the council book of 3d
March, 34 Hen. VI. and which is in fubftance as fol¬
lows. 5The king had of his own ^ authority appointed
a man fheriff of Lincolnfliire, which ^office he refufed
to take upon him ; whereupon the opinions of the judges
Tvcre taken, what Ihould be done in this behalf.. And
the twm chief juftices, Sir John Fortefcue and Sir John
Prifot, delivered the unanimous opinion of them all;
that the king did an error when he made a peifon
Jlieriff that was not chofen and prefented to him accord¬
ing to the ftatute J that the perfon refufmg was liable
to no line for difobedience, as if he bad been ono °f
the three perfons chofen according to the tenor of the
flatute j that they would advife the king to have re-
courfe to the three perfons that were chofen ai-coiding
to the ftatute, or that fome other thrifty man be in-
treated to occupy the office for this year j and that, the
next year, to efchew fuch inconveniences, the order of the
ftatute in this behalf made be obferved.” But, notwith-
ftanding this unanimous refolution of all the judges of
England, thus entered in the council-book, and the ftatute
34&and35 Hen. VIII. c. 26. § 61. which exprefsly
recognizes this to be the law of the land, lome 01 our
writers have aftirmed, that the king, by his prerogative,
may name whom ue pleaies to be iheiift', whether cho¬
fen by the judges or not. This is grounded on a very
particular cafe in the fifth year of Queen Elizaoeth,
when, by reafon of the plague, there was no Michael¬
mas term kept at Weftminfter •, fo that the judges could
not meet there in crajlino animarum to nominate the fhe-
riffs : whereupon the queen named them herfelf, with¬
out fuch previous affembly, appointing for the moft part
one of two remaining in the laft year’s lift. .And this
cafe, thus circumftanced, is the only authority in our
books for the making thefe extraordinary iheriffs. It
is true, the reporter adds, that it was held that.the queen
by her prerogative might make a ftienff wdtnout the
cledlion ofthe judges, non objlante aliquo Jiatuto in contra-
rium; but the doftrine of non obflante, which fets. the
prerogative above the laivs, was effedtually demoliftved
by the bill of rights at the revolution, and abdicated
Weftminfter-hall when King James abdicated the king¬
dom. However, it mult be acknowledged, that the
pradtice of occaftonally naming wdiat are called pocbct-
fheriffs, by the foie authority of the crown, hath uni¬
formly continued to the reign ot his prefent majefty $
in which, it is believed, few fif sny) inftances have oc¬
curred. ,
Sheriffs, by virtue of feveral old ftatutes, are to con¬
tinue in their office no longer than one year ; and yet it
hath been faid that a fheriff may be appointed durante
bene placito, or during the king’s pleafure •, and fo is
the form of the royal writ. Therefore, till a new ffie-
riff be named, his office cannot be determined, unlefs
by his own death, or the demife of the king} in ivhich
laft cafe it wTas ufual for the fucceffor to fend a new
writ to the old fheriff; but now, by ftatute 1 Anne ft.
I. c. 8. all officers appointed by the preceding king may
hold their offices for fix months after the king’s demife,
unlefs fooner difplaced by the fucceffor. We may
farther obferve, that by ftatute 1 Ric. II. c. II. no
man that has ferved the office of fheriff for one year can
be compelled to ferve the fame again within three years
after.
We ftiall find it is of the utmoft importance to have
3- ] 3 H E
• the fheriff appointed according to law, when we confi-
der his power and duty. dLhefe are either as.a judge,
as the keeper of the king’s peace, as a minifterial officer
of the fuperior courts of juftice, or as the king’s
bailiff.
In his judicial capacity he is to hear and determine all.
caufes of 40 {hillings value and under, in his county-
court : and he has alio a judicial power in divers other
civil cafes. He is likewife to decide the eleftions of
knights of the ftiire, (fubjeft to the controul of the
Houfe of Commons), of coroners, and of ve*derors 5 to
judge of the qualification of voters, and to return fuch as
he (hall determine to be duly, clewed.
As the keepers of the king’s peace, both by com¬
mon law and fpecial commiflion, he is the firft man in
the county, and fuperior in rank to any nobleman
therein, during his office. He may apprehend, and
commit to priion, all perfons who break tne peace, o:
attempt to break it •, and may bind any one in a recog¬
nizance to keep the king’s peace. He may, and is
bound, ex ojjicio, to purfue and take all traitors, mur¬
derers, felons, and other mildoers, and commit them,
to gaol for fafe cuftody. He is alfo to defend his coun¬
ty againft any of the king’s enemies when they come
into the land } and for this pufpofe, as well as mr
keeping the peace and purfuing felons, he may com¬
mand all the people of his county to attend him j which
is called the pqffe comitatus, or power of the county j
which fummons, every perion above 15 years old, and
under the degree of a peer, is bound to attend upon
warning, under pain of fine and imprifonment.
though the fheriff is thus the principal confervator of
the peace in his county, yet, by the exprefs direftions
of the great charter, he, together with the conftabie,
coroner, and certain other officers of the king, are for¬
bidden to hold any pleas of the crown, or, in other
words, to try any criminal offence. For it would be
highly unbecoming, that the executioners of juftice
fhould be alfo the judges •, fliould impofe, as well as levy,
fines and amercements j fliould one day condemn a man
to death, and perfonally execute him the next. Neither
may he aft as an ordinary juftice of the peace during
the time of his office*, for this would be equally incon-
ftftent, he being in many refpefts the fervant of the juf¬
tices.
In his minifterial capacity, the fheriff is bound to ex¬
ecute all procefs iffuing from tne king’s courts of juf¬
tice. In the commencement of civil caufes, he is to
ferve the writ, to arreft, and to take bail 5 when the
caufe comes to trial, he muft fummon and return the
jury; when it is determined, he muft fee the judgment
of the court carried into execution. In criminal mat¬
ters, he .alfo arrefts and imprifons, he returns the jury,
he has the cuftody of the delinquent, and he executes
the fentence of the court, though it extend to death
itfelf.
As the king’s bailiff, it is his bufinefs to preferve the
rights of the king within his bailiwick ; for fo his coun¬
ty is frequently called in the writs : a word introduced
by the princes of the Norman line *, in imitation, of the
French, whofe territory is divided into bailiwicks, as
that of England into counties. He muft feize to the
king’s ufe all lands devolved to the crown by attainder
or efeheat 5 muft levy all fines and forfeitures; muft feize
and keep all waifs, wrecks, eftrays, and the like, unlefs
G g 2 they
SHE [2
they be granted to fome fubjea; and muft alfo colleft
the king’s rents within his bailiwick, if commanded by
procefs from the exchequer. 3
To execute thefe various offices, the ffieriff has under
him many inferior officers; an under-ffieriff, bailiffs and
gaolers, who muff neither buy, fell, nor farm their offices,
on forfeiture of 5001.
The under-ffieriff ufually performs all the duties of
the office ; a very few only excepted, where the per-
lonm prefence of the high ffieriff is neceffary. But no
Uj ^ier^ abide in his office above one year:
and if he does, by ftatute 23 Hen. VI. c. 8. he for¬
feits 2001. a very large penalty in thofe early days. And
no under-ffieriff or ffieriff’s officer ffiall praftife as an at¬
torney during the time he continues in fuch office : for
this would be a great inlet to partiality and oppreffion.
But thele lalutary regulations are ffiamefully evaded, by
practifing m the names of other attorneys, and putting
in ffiam deputies by way of nominal under-ffieriffs: by
rea.on of which, fays Dalton, the under-ffieriffs and bai¬
liffs do grow fo cunning in their feveral places, that they
are able to deceive, and it may well be feared that ma¬
ny of them do deceive, both the king, the high ffieriff,
and the county. 6 ’
bHERiF*, in Scotland. See Law, Part iii. fedl. 3.
* ^J^^-kOCK, William, a learned Engliffi divine
in the 17th century, was born in 1641, and educated
at Eton fchool, where he diftinguiffied himfelf by the
vigour of his genius and his application to fludy. Thence
he was removed to Cambridge, where he took his de¬
grees. In 1669 he became rector of the pariffi of St
George, Botolph-lane, in London ; and in 1681 wascol-
Hted to the prebend of Pancras, in the cathedral of St
Paul s. He was likewife chofen mailer of the Temple,
and had the reftory of Therfield in Hertfordffiire. Af¬
ter the Revolution he was fufpended from his preferment
for refufing the oaths to King William and Queen Ma-
xy ; but at laft he took them, and publicly juliified what
he had done. In 1691 he was inllalled dean of St
Paul s. His Vindication of the Doarine of the Trinity
engaged him in a warm controverfy with Dr South and
others. Biffiop Burnet tells us, he was “ a clear, a po-
hte and a ftrong writer; but apt to affume too much
to himlelf, and to treat his adverfaries with contempt.”
He died m 1707. His works are very numerous: a-
mong thefe are, 1. A Difcourfe concerning the Know¬
ledge of Jefus Chnft, again!! Dr Owen. 2. Several
pieces againlf the Papilts, the Socinians, and Diffenters.
3. A pradical Treatife on Death, which is much ad-
4' A- practical Dilcourfe on Providence c A
otrhfrwirksifC°Urfe ^ thC FUtUie Judgraent» and
Sherlock, Dr Thomas, biffiop of London, was
the Ion of the preceding Dr William Sherlock, and
was born in 1678. He was educated in Catharine hall,
ambndge, wffiere he took his degrees, and of which
he became mailer : he was made mailer of the Temple
very young, on the refignation of his father; and it is
xemaikable, that this malterffiip was held by father and
Z tc7 7$ T-e than 7° ’’ears- He ™
the head of the^ oppofition againll Dr Hoadley biffiop
of Bangor ; during which conteft he publiffied a great
« Gro" P1!iCe« rHe artta1ckcd the famous Collins’s
Grounds and Reafons of the Chriftian Religion,” in
36 ] SHE
a courfe of fix fermons, preached at the Temple church, Sherlock,
which he infilled “ Ihe Ufe and Intent of Prophecy in Sherriffe.
the feveral Ages of the World.” In 1728, Dr Sherlock ' 
was promoted to the biffiopric of Bangor; and was
tranflated to Saliffiury in <1734. In 1747 he refufed
the archbiffiopric of Canterbury, on account of his ill
flute oi health ; but recovering in a good degree, ac¬
cepted the lee of London the follow ing year. On oc-
cafion of the earthquakes in 1750, he publiffied an ex¬
cellent Palloral Letter to the clergy and inhabitants
of London and Weltminlter : of wffiich it is faid there
were printed in 410, 5000 ; in 8vo, 20,000 ; and in
i2mo, about 30,000 ; befide pirated editions, of which
not lels than 50,000 were fuppoled to have been fold.
Under the weak Hate of body in which he lay for feveral
years, he reviled and publiffied 4 vols of Sermons in Bvo,
wffiich are particularly admired for their ingenuity and
elegance. He died in 1762, and by report worth
ijo.oool. “ His learning,” fays Dr Nicholls, “ was
very extenlive: God had given him a great and an un-
deritanding mind, a quick comprehenfion, and a folid
judgment. Thefe advantages of nature he improved by
much indullry and application. His fkill in the civil
and canon law was very confiderable ; to which he had
added fuch a knowledge of the common law of England
as few clergymen attain to. This it was that gave him
that influence in all caufes where the church was con¬
cerned ; as knowing precifely what it had to claim from
its conllitutions and canons, and what from the com¬
mon law of the land.” Dr Nicholls then mentions his
conllant and exemplary piety, his warm and fervent zeal
in preaching the duties and maintaining the doctrines of
Chrillianity, and his large and diffufive munificence and
charity; particularly by his having given large fums of
money to the corporation of clergymen’s fons, to feveral
of the hofpitals, and to the fociety for propagating the
gofpel in foreign parts; alfo his bequeathing to Catha-
rine-hall in Cambridge, the place of his education, his
valuable library of books, and his donations for the
founding a librarian’s place and a fcholarlhip, to the a-
mount of feveral thoufand pounds.
SHERRIFFE of Mecca, the title of the defen¬
dants of Mahomet by Haffan Ibn Ali. Thefe are di¬
vided into feveral branches, of which the family of Ali
Bunemi, confining at lealt of three hundred individuals,
enjoy the foie right to the throne of Mecca. The Ali
Bunemi are, again, fubdivided into two fubordinate
branches, Darii Sajid, and Darii Barkad; of wffiom
fometimes the one, fometimes the other, have given
fovereigns to Mecca and Medina, wffien thele wrere fepa-
rate Hates.
Not only is the Turkilh fultan indifferent about the
order of fucceflion in this family, but he feems even to
foment the diffenfions which arife among them, and fa¬
vours the flrongetf, merely that he may weaken them
all. As the order of fucceffion is not determinately
fixed, and the ffierriffes may all afpire alike to the fo-
yereign pow'er, this uncertainty of right, aided by the
intrigues of the T. urkiffi officers, occalions frequent re¬
volutions. The grand ffierriffe is feldom able to main¬
tain himfelf on the throne ; and it Hill feldomer happens
that his reign is not difturbed by the revolt of his near-
ell relations. T. here have been inilances of a nephew
fucceeding his uncle, an uncle fucceeding his nephew ;
and
SHE L" 237 ] SHE
SherrifiV. and fometxmes of a perfon, from a remote branch, com-
—jng jn room 0f the reigning prince of the ancient
houfe. . .
When Niebuhr was in Arabia, in 1763, the reigning
Sherriffe Mefad had fitten fourteen years on the throne,
and, during all that period, had been continually at war
with the neighbouring Arabs, and with his own neareft
relations fometimes. A few years before, the pacha of
Syria had depofed him, and raifed his younger brother
to the fovereign dignity in his dead. Hut after the
departu e of the caravan, Jafar, the new Iherrifte, not
being able to maintain himfelf on the throne, was obli¬
ged to refign the fovereignty again to Meiad. Achmet,
the fecond brother of the Iherriffe, who was much belo¬
ved by the Arabs, threatened to attack Mecca while
Niebuhr was at Jidda. Our traveller was foon after in¬
formed of the termination of the quarrel, and of Ach-
met’s return to Mecca, where he continued to live peace¬
ably in a private chara&er.
Thefe examples (how that the Muffulmans obferve
not the law which forbids them to bear arms againit
their holy places. An Egyptian bey even prefumed,
a few years fmce, to plant fome fmall cannons within
the compafs of the Kaaba, upon a fmall tower, from
which he fired over that facred manfion,upon the palace
of Sherriffe Mefad, with whom he was at variance.
The dominions of the fherriffe, comprehend the cities
of Mecca, Medina, Jambo, Taaif, Sadie, Ghunfude, Hali,
and thirteen others lefs confiderable, all lituated in Hed-
jas. Near Taaif is the lofty mountain of Gazvan, which
according to Arabian authors, is covered with fnow in
the midft of fummer. As thefe dominions are neither
opulent nor extenfive, the revenue of their fovereign can¬
not be confiderable.
He finds a rich refource, however, in the impofts le¬
vied on pilgrims, and in the gratuities offered him by
Muffulman monarchs. Every pilgrim pays a tax of from
ten to an hundred crowns, in proportion to his ability.
The Great Mogul remits annually fixty thoufand rou-
pees to the fherriffe, by an aflignment upon the govern¬
ment of Surat. Indeed, fince the Englifh made tliem-
felves mafters of this city, and the territory belonging
to it, the nabob of Surat has no longer been able to.
pay the fum. The fherriffe once demanded it of the
Englifh, as the poffeffors of Surat ; and, till they fliould
fatisfy him, forbade their captains to leave the port of
Jidda. But the Englifh difregarding this prohibition,
the fherriffe complained to the Ottoman Porte, and they
communicated his complaints to the Englifh ambaffa-
dor. He at the fame time opened a negociation with
the nominal nabob, who refides in Surat. But all thefe
fteps proved fruitlefs : and the fovereign of Mecca feems
not likely to be ever more benefited by the contribu¬
tion from India.
The power of the fherriffe extends not to fpiritual
matters j thefe are entirely managed by the heads of the Sherriffe*
clergy, of different fesffs, who are refident at Mecca. Shetland^
Rigid Muffulmans, fuch as the Turks, are not very fa- v
vourable in their fentiments of the fherriffes, but fufpedt
their orthodoxy, and look upon them as fecretly attach¬
ed to the tolerant feci of the Zeidi.
SHETLAND, the name of certain iflands belong¬
ing to Scotland, and lying to the northward of Orkney.
There are many convincing proofs that thefe iflands
were very early inhabited by the Pi<ffs, or rather by
thofe nations who were the original poffeffors of the
Orkneys ; and at the time of the total deftruftion of
thefe nations, if any credit be due to tradition, their
vroods ivere entirely ruined (a). It is highly probable
that the people in Snetland, as well as in the Orkneys^
flourifhed under their own princes dependent upon the
crown of Norway; yet this feems to have been rather
through what they acquired by fifhing and commerce,
than by the cultivation of their lands. It may alfo be
reafonably prefumed, that they grew thinner of inhabi¬
tants after they were annexed to the crown of Scot¬
land ; and it is likely that they revived again, chiefly--
by the very great and extenfive improvements which
the Dutch made in the herring fifhery upon their coafts,
and the trade that the crews of their buffes, then very
numerous, carried on with the inhabitants, neceflarily
refulting from their want of provifions and other conve¬
niences.
There are many reafons which may be afligned wThy
thefe iflands, though part of our dominions, have not
hitherto been better known to us. They were com¬
monly placed two degrees too far to the north in all the
old maps, in order to make them agree with Ptolemy’s
defcription of Thule, which hejifferted to be in the la¬
titude of 63 degrees } which we find urged by Camden
as a reafon. why Thule muff be one of the Shetland ifles,
to which Speed alfo agrees, though from their being
thus wrong placed he could not find room for them in
his maps. Another, and that no light caufe, was the
many falfe, fabulous, and impertinent relations publifh-
ed concerning them (b), as if they were countries in-
hofpitable and uninhabitable ; and laftly, the indolence,
or rather indifference, of the natives, who, contenting,
themfelves with thofe neceffaries and conveniences pro¬
cured by their intercourfe with other nations, and con*
ceiving themfelves negle&ed by the mother country, have
feldom troubled her with their applications.
There are few countries that have gone by more
names than thefe iflands } they were called in Blanche,
Hia/tlandia, from hialt, the “ hilt of a fword this
might be poflibly corrupted into Hetland, Hitland, or
Hethlandy though fome tell us this fignifies a “ high
land.” They have been likewife, and are ftill in fome
maps, called Zetland and Zealand, in reference, as has
been fuppofed, to their fituation. By the Danes, and
by
(a) The tradition is, that this was done by the Scots when they deftroyed the Pi<ffs ; but is more probably re*
ferred to the Norwegians rooting out the original poffeffors of Shetland.
(b) They reprefented the climate as intenfely cold ; the foil as compofed of crags and quagmire, fo barren
as to be incapable of bearing corn ; to fupply which, the people, after drying filh-bones, powdered them, then
kneaded and baked them for bread. The larger filh bones were faid to be all the fuel they had. Yet, in fo dreary
a country, and in. fuch miferable circumftances, they were acknowledged to be very long-lived, cheerful, and con*-
tented.
SHE [ 333 ] SHE
■Shetland, by tlie natives, they are ftyled Ye alt aland: and not-
^ v withftanding the oddnefs of the orthography, this dif¬
fers very little, if at all, from their manner of pronoun¬
cing Zetland, out of which pronunciation grew the mo¬
dern names of Shetland and Shotland.
The iflands of Shetland, as we commonly call them,
are well fituated for trade. The neared continent to
them is Norway j the port of Bergen lying 44 leagues
ead, whereas they lie 46 leagues north-ncrth-ead from
Buchannefs j ead-north-ead from Sanda, one of the
Orkneys, about 16 or 18 leagues •, lix or feven leagues
north-ead from Fair Ifle 5 58 leagues ead from the Fer-
roe ides ; and at nearly the fame didance north-ead from
Lewis. The fouthern promontory of the Mainland,
called Sumburgk Head, lies in 59 degrees and 59 mi¬
nutes of north latitude } and the northern extremity of
Und, the mod remote of them all, in the latitude of
61 degrees 15 minutes. The meridian of London paf*
fes through this lad ifland, which lies about 2 degrees
30 minutes wed from Paris, and about 5 degrees 1 ij
minutes ead from the meridian of Cape Lizard. Ac¬
cording to Gifford’s Hidorical Defcription of Zetland,
the inhabited iffands are 33, of which the principal is
ftyled Mainland, and extends in length from north to
fouth about 60 miles, and is in fome places 20 broad,
though in others not more than two.
• It is impoflible to fpeak with precifion ; but, accord¬
ing to the bed computation which wYe have been able to
form, the Shetland ifles contain near three times as much
land as the Orkneys: and they are confidered as not in¬
ferior to the provinces of Utrecht, Zealand, and all the
red of the Dutch iffands taken together j but of climate
and foil they have not much to boad. The longed day
in the iffand of Und is 19 hours 15 minutes, and of
cpnfequence the ffiorted day 4 hours and 45 minutes.
The fpring is very late, the dimmer very Ihort j the au¬
tumn alfo is of no long duration, dark, foggy, and
rainy, the winter lets in about November, and lads till
April, and fometimes till May. They have frequently
in that feafon dorms of thunder, much rain, but little
trod or fnow. High winds are indeed very frequent and
very troublefome, yet they feldom produce any terrible
effedls. The aurora borealis is as common here as in any
of the northern countries. In the winter feafon the fea
fwells and rages in fuch a manner, that for five or fix
months their ports are inacceffible, and of courfe the
people during that fpace have no correfpondence with
the red of the world.
The foil in the interior part of the Mainland, for the
mod part, is mountainous, moorilh, and boggy, yet not
to fuch a degree as to render the country utterly impaf-
fable j for many of the roads here, and in forae of the
northern ifles, are as good as any other natural roads,
* and the people travel them frequently on all occafions.
Near the coad there are fometimes for miles together
flat pleafant fpots, very fertile both in paflure and corn.
The mountains produce large crops of very nutritive
grafs in the fummer •, and they cut confiderable quanti¬
ties of hay, with which they feed their cattle in the
winter. They might with a little attention bring more
of their country into cultivation : but the people are fo
much addicted to their filhery, and feel fo little neceffity
of having recourfe to this method for fubiidence, that
they are content, how flrange feever that may feem to
4
us, to let four parts in five of their land remain in a date Shetland,
of nature. —y—<•»!
They want not confiderable quantities of marl in dif¬
ferent iflands, though they ufe but little ; hitherto there
has been no chalk found j limeflone and freedone there
are in the fouthern parts of the Mainland in great quan¬
tities, and alfo in the neighbouring iflands, particularly
Fetlar •, and confiderable quantities of flate, very good
in its kind. No mines have been hitherto wrought
to any great extent', but there are in many places ap¬
pearances of metallic ores, as thofe of copper and iron ;
and it is laid, pieces of filver ore have been found. In
lome of the fmaller ifles there are drong appearances of
iron 5 but, through the want of proper experiments being
made, there is, in this refpett at lead, hitherto nothing
certain. Their meadows are inclofed with dikes, and
produce very good grafs. The little corn they grow is
chiefly barley, with fome oats 5 though even in the
northern extremity of Und the little land which they
have is remarkable for its fertility. The hills abound
with medicinal herbs 5 and their kitchen-gardens thrive
US well, and produce as good greens and roots, as any
in Britain. Of late years, and fince this has been at¬
tended to, fome gentlemen have had even greater fuc-
cefs than they expedted in the cultivating of tulips,
rofes, and many other flowers. They have no trees,
and hardly any fhrubs except juniper, yet they have a
tradition that their country was formerly overgrown
with woods; and it feems to be a confirmation of this,
that the roots of timber-trees have been, and are dill,
dug up at a great depth ; and that in fome, and thofe
too inacceflible, places, the mountain-adi is dill found
growing wild. That this defedl, viz. the want of wood
at prefent, does not arife entirely from the foil or cli¬
mate, appears from feveral late experiments 5 fome gen¬
tlemen having raifed adi, maple, horfe-chefnuts, &.c. in
their gardens. Though the inhabitants are without ei¬
ther wood or coals, they are very well fupplied with
fuel, having great plenty of heath and peat. The black
cattle in this country are in general of a larger fort than
in Orkney, which is owing to their having more exten-
five padures; a clear proof that dill farther improve¬
ments might be made in refpect to fize. Their horfes
are fmall, but ftrong, dout, and well-lbaped, live very
hardy, and to a great age. They have likewife a breed
of fmall fwine, the flefh of which, when fat, is edeemed
very delicious. They have no goats, hares, or foxes 5
and in general no wild or venomous creatures of any
kind except rats in fome few illands. They have no
moorfowl, which is the more remarkable, as there are
everywhere immenfe quantities of heath j but there are
many forts of wild and water-fowl, particularly the dun-
ter-goofe, clack-goofe, lolan-goofe, fwans, ducks, teal,
whaps, folds, lyres, kittiwakes, maws, plovers, cormo¬
rants, &c. There is likewife the ember-goofe, which
is find to hatch her egg under her wing. Eagles and
hawks, as alfo ravens, crows, mews, &c. abound
here.
All thefe iflands are well watered ; for there are eve¬
rywhere excellent fprings, fome of them mineral and
medicinal. They have indeed no rivers 5 but many
pleafant rills or rivulets, of different fizes; in fome of
the largeft they have admirable trouts, fome of which
are of J <? and even of 20 pounds weight. They have
likewife
*
SHE [239
Shetland, likewife many frefh-water lakes, well fiorej with treat
b*— ' and eels, and in moft of them there are alio large and
fine flounders j in feme very excellent cod. Iheie frefh-
water lakes, if the country was better peopled, and the
common people more at their eafe, are certainly capable
of great improvements. The fea-coafls of the Main¬
land of Shetland, in a flraight line, are 55. leagues •,
and therefore there cannot be a country conceived more
proper for eltablifhing an extenfive fifhery. Vv hat the
inhabitants have been hitherto able to do, their natural
advantages confidered, does not deferve that name, not-
withftanding they export large quantities of cod, tulk,
ling, and fkate, infomuch that the bounty allowed by
afts of parliament amounts from 1400I. to 2000I. an¬
nually. They have, befides, haddocks, whitings, tur¬
bot, and a variety of other fifh. In many of the in¬
lets there are prodigious quantities of excellent oyflers,
lobflers, mufcles, cockles, and other fhell-fiih. As to
amphibious creatures, they have multitudes of otters
and feals ; add to thefe, that amber, ambergris, and
other fpoils of the ocean, are fometimes found upon the
coafts.
The inhabitants arc a ftput, well-made, comely peo¬
ple } the lower fort of a fwarthy complexion. The gen¬
try are allowed, by all who have converfed with them,
to be moft of them polite, fhrewd, fenfxble, lively, ac¬
tive, and intelligent perfons; and thefe, to the number
of 100 families, have very handfome, ftrong, well-built
houfes, neatly furnifhed ; their tables well ferved ; po-
lifhed in their manners, and exceedingly hofpitable and
civil to ftrangers. Thofe of an inferior rank are a hardy,
robuft, and laborious people, who, generally fpeaking,
get their bread by fifhing in all weathers in their yawls,
which are little bigger than Gravefend wherries } live
hardily, and in the fummer feafon moftly on fifti •, their
drink, w’hich, in reference to the Britifh dominions, is
peculiar to the country, is called bland, and is a fort of
butter-milk, long kept, and very four. Many live to
great ages, though not fo long as in former times. In
refpeft, however, to the bulk of the inhabitants, from
the poornefs of living, from the nature of it, and from
the drinking great quantities of corn-fpirits of the very
worft fort, multitudes are afflifled with an inveterate
feurvy •, from which thofe in better circumftances are
■entirely free, and enjoy as good health as in any other
country in Europe. As they have no great turn to
•agriculture, and are perfuaded that their country is not
■ fit for it, they do not (though probably they might)
raife corn enough to fupport them for more than two-
thirds of the year. But they are much more fuccefsful
-in their pafture-grounds, which are kept well inclofed,
in-good order, and, together with their commons, fup-
ply them plentifully with beef and mutton. They pay
•their rents generally in butter at Lammas, and in mo¬
ney at Martinmas. As to manufactures, they make a
ftrong coarfe cloth for their own ufe, as alfo linen.
They make likewife of their own wool very fine ftock-
•ings. They export, befides the different kinds of fifh
already mentioned, fome herrings, a confiderable quan¬
tity of butter and train-oil, otter and feal {kins, and no
inconfiderable quantity of the fine ftockings juft men¬
tioned. Their chief trade is to Leith, London, Ham¬
burgh, Spain, and to the Straits. They import tim¬
bers, deals, and fome of their baft oats, from Norway •,
corn and flour from the Orkneys, and from North Eri-
] SHE
tain ; fpirits and fome other things from Hamburgh j
cloths and better fort of linen from Leith} grocery,
houfehold furniture, and other neceffaries, from Lon¬
don. The fuperior-duties to the earl of Morton are
generally let in farm j and are paid by the people in
butter, oil, and money. The remains of the old Nor¬
wegian conftitution are ftill vifible in the divifion of
their lands } and they have fome udalmen or freeholders
amongft them. But the Scots laws, cuftoms, manners,
drefs, and language, prevail 5 and they have a fherift,
and other magiftrates for the adminiftration of juftice, as
' well as a cuftomhoufe, with a proper number of officers.
In reference to their ecciefiaftical concerns, they have a
prefbytery, 12 minifters, and an itinerant for Foula,
Fair Bland, and the Skerries. Each of thefe minifters
has a ftipend of between 40 and 50 pounds, befides a
houfe and a glebe free from taxes. The number of fouls
in thefe iflands may be about 20,000.
SHEW-BREAD, the loaves of bread which the prieft:
of the week put every Sabbath-day upon the golden-
table in the fanfluary, before the Lord, in the temple
of the jews. They were twelve in number, and were
offered to God in the name of the twelve tribes of Ifrael.
They were fhaped like a brick, were ten palms long and
five broad, weighing about eight pounds each. I hey
were unleavened, and made of fine Hour by the Levites.
The priefts fet them on the table in two row’s, fix in a
row, and put frankincenfe upon them to preferve them
from moulding. They were changed every Sabbath,
and the old ones belonged to the prieft upon duty. Of
this bread none but the priefts might eat, except in cafes
of neceffity. It was called the bread of faces, becaufe
the table of the fhew-bread, being almoft over-againft
the ark of the covenant, the loaves might be faid to be
fe{ before the face of God. Ihe original table was car¬
ried away to Babylon, but a new one was made for the
fecond temple. It was of wood overlaid with gold.
This, with the candleftick and fome other fpoils, was
carried by Titus to Rome.
SHIELD, an ancient weapon of defence, in form of
a light buckler, borne on the arm to fend off lances,
darts, &c. The form of the ftiield is reprefented by
the efcutcheon in coats of arms, 'ihe fhield was that
part of the ancient armour on which the perfons of di-
ftindfion in the field of battle always had their arms
painted ; and moft of the words ufed at this time to
exp refs the (pace that holds the arms of families are
derived from the Latin name for a ft\\c\&,fcuticm. T he
French efeu and cfcuff on, and the Englifh word efeut-
chcon, or, as we commonly fpeak it, fcutcheon, are evi¬
dently from this origin 5 and the Italian feudo fignifies
both the ftiield of arms and that ufed in war. The La¬
tin name clypeus, for the fame thing, feems alfo to be
derived from the Greek word yXvQuv, to engrave ; and
it had this name from the feveral figures engraved on it,
as marks of diftinftion of the perfon who wore it.
The fhield in war, among the Greeks and Romans,
was not only ufeful in the defence of the body, but it
was alfo a token, or badge of honour, to the wearer j
and he who returned from battle without it was always
treated with infamy afterwards. People have at all
times thought this honourable piece of the armour the
propereft place to engrave, or figure on the figns of dig¬
nity of the pofleffor of it *, and hence, when arms came
to be painted for families in aftertimes, the heralds al¬
ways
Shetland
II
Shield.
SHI [ 2^0 ] SHI
Shield. v.’ays dhofe to reprefent them upon the figure of a fhield,
y-'"’", but with feveral exterior additions and ornaments j as
the helmet, fupporters, and the reft.
The form of the ftiield has not only been found dif¬
ferent in various nations, but even the people of the
fame nation, at different times, have varied its form ex¬
tremely j and among feveral people there have been
fliields of feveral forms and fizes in ufe, at the fame pe¬
riod of time, and fuited to different occafions. The
moft ancient and univerfal form of fliields, in the earlier
ages, feems to have been the triangular. This we fee
inftances of in all the monuments and gems of antiquity:
our own moft early monuments fliow it to have been
the moft antique fliape alfo with us, and the heralds
have found it the moft convenient for their purpofes,
when they had any odd number of figures to reprefent;
as if three, then two in the broad bottom part, and one
in the narrow upper end, it held them very well j or if
five, they flood as conveniently, as three below, and
two above. The other form of a fhield, now univer-
fally ufed, is fquare, rounded and pointed at the bot¬
tom : this is taken from the figure of the Samnitic fhield
ufed by the Romans, and fince copied very generally by
the Englifh, French, and Germans.
The Spaniards and Portuguefe have the like general
form of ftiields, but they are round at the bottom with¬
out the point j and the Germans, befide the Samnite-
fhield, have two others pretty much in ufe : thefe are,
i. The bulging fhield, diftinguifhed by its fwclling or
bulging out at the flanks ; and, 2. The indented fhield,
or fliield chancree, which has a number of notches and
indentings all round its fides. The ufe of the ancient
fliield of this form wTas, that the notches ferved to reft
the lance upon, that it might be firm while it gave the
thruft \ but this form being lefs proper for the receiving
armorial figures, the two former have been much more
ufed in the heraldry of that nation.
Befide this different form of the fliields in heraldry,
we find them alfo often diftinguifhed by their different
pofitions, fome of them ftanding ere£f, and others flant-
ing various ways, and in different degrees ; this the he¬
ralds exprefs by the word pendant, “ hanging,” they
feeming to be hung up not by the centre, but by the
right or left corner. The French call thefe ecu pendant,
and the common antique triangular ones ecu ancien.
The Italians call this fcuto pendente ; and the reafon gi¬
ven for exhibiting the fhield in thefe figures in heraldry
is, that in the ancient tilts and tournaments, they wftio
were to juft at thefe military exercifes, were obliged to
hang up their fliields writh their armories, or coats of
arms on them, out at the windows and balconies of the
houfes near the place •, or upon trees, pavilions, or the
barriers of the ground, if the exercife was to be perform¬
ed in the field.
Thofe who were to fight on foot, according to Co-
lumbier, had their fhields hung up by the right corner,
and thofe wrho were to fight on horfeback had theirs
hung up by the left. This pofition of the ftiields in
heraldry is called couche by fome wrriters, though by the
generality pendant.
It was very frequent in all parts of Europe, in arms
given between the nth and 14th centuries; but it is
to be obferved, that the hanging by the left corner,
as it was the token of the owner’s being to fight on
horfeback, fo it was efteemed the moft honourable and
3
noble fituation ; and all the pendant fliields of the fons Shield
of the royal family of Scotland and England, and of our . il.
nobility at that time, are thus hanging from the left Shllting-
corner. The hanging from this corner was a token of *
the owner’s being of noble birth, and having fought in
the tournaments before ; but no fovereign ever had a
ftiield pendant any way, but always eredt, as they never
formally entered the lifts of the tournament.
The Italians generally have their fliields of arms of
an oval form ; this feems to be done in imitation of
thofe of the popes and other dignified clergy : but their
herald Petro Sandlo feems to regret the ule of this fi¬
gure of the fliield, as an innovation brought in by the
painters and engravers as moft convenient for holding
the figures, but derogatory to the honour of the poffef-
for, as not reprefen ting either antiquity or honours won
in war, but rather the honours of fome citizen or per-
fon of learning. Some have carried it fo far as to fay,
that thole who either have no ancient title to nobility, or
have fullied it by any umvorthy adtion, cannot any longer
wear their arms in fliields properly figured, but were obli¬
ged to have them painted in an oval or round fliield.
In Flanders, where this author lived, the round and
oval ftiields are in the difrepute he fpeaks of; but in
Italy, befide the popes and dignified prelates, many of
the firft families of the laity have them.
The fecular princes, in many other countries, alfo re¬
tain this form of the fliield, as the moft ancient and truly
expreflive of the Roman clypeus.
Shield, in Heraldry, the efcutcheon or field on which
the bearings of coats of arms are placed. See Heraldry.
SHIELDRAKE, or Sheldrake. See Anas, Or¬
nithology Index.
SHIELDS, North and South, two fea-port towns,
at the mouth of the Tyne, the one in Northumberland,
the other in the county of Durham. South Shields
contained above 200 falt-pans, 50 years ago; but now
there are not more than five or fix ; and the duty, which
is now only lo,oool. per annum, amounted formerly to
8o,ocol. South Shields has a confiderable trade, in
which not lefs than 500 veffels from 100 to 500 tons
burden are employed ; and has nine dry docks for re¬
pairing, and 10 yards for building (hips. This town
has been much improved of late years. In the centre
there is a large fquare, in which there is a handfome
town-hall, with a colonnade under it for the iveekly
market, and from which ftreets branch out on all fides.
North Shields contains alfo fome fine ftreets and fquares.
The harbour is very commodious, and fo fpacious, that
it is capable of receiving 2000 fliips. It is defended by
a fort, in which there is alfo a lighthoufe, correfpond-
ing with another on the top of the bank, to diredt vef¬
fels into the harbour. The population of North and
South Shields is eftimated at 2c,ooo. W. Long. 1. 12.
N. Lat. 55. 44-
SHIF1ER3, onboard a man of war, certain men
who are employed by the cooks to ftiift and change the
water in which the flefh or fifti is put, and laid for fome
time, in order to fit it for the kettle.
SHIFTING A TACKLE, in fea-language, the a£t of
removing the blocks of a tackle to a greater diftance
from each other, on the objedt to which they are ap¬
plied, in order to give a greater fcope or extent to their
purchafe. This, operation is otherwife called jleeting.
Shifting the helm denotes the alteration of its pofition,
SHI
[ 241 ]
S H I
* Expli-
•catio Re¬
rum et
Verborum
in Leg- Sax,
voc. Libra.
f Gram.
iSaxon,
p.
by puftiing it towards the oppofite fide of the ihip.
Shifting the voyal, fignifies changing its pofition on the
capftern, from the right to the left, and vice verfa.
SHILLING, an Englilh filver coin, equal to twelve
pence, or the twentieth part of a pound.
Freherus derives the Saxon fell ling t whence our (hil¬
ling, from a corruption of filiqua ; proving the deriva¬
tion by feveral texts of law, and, among others, by the
36th law, Do annuis legatis. Skinner deduces it from
the Saxon feild, “ (hield,” by reafon of the efcutcheon
of arms thereon.
Bidiop Hooper derives it from the Arabic fcheelc,
fignifying a weight; but others, with greater probabi¬
lity, deduce it from the Latin jicilicus, which fignified
in that language a quarter of an ounce, or the 48th part
of a Roman pound. In confirmation of this etymology
it is alleged, that the (hilling kept its original fignifica-
tion, and bore the fame proportion to the Saxon pound
as ficilicus did to the Roman and the Greek, being ex-
adlly the 48th part of the Saxon pound $ a difeovery
which we owe to Mr Lambarde *.
Honeever, the Saxon laws reckon the pound in the
round number at 50 (hillings, but they really coined
out of it only 48; the value of the (hilling w7as five-
pence j but it was reduced to fourpence above a century
before the conqueft j for feveral of the Saxon laws, made
in Athenian’s reign, oblige us to take this eftimate.
Thus it continued to the Norman times, as one of the
Conqueror’s laws fufficiently afeertains; and it feems
to have been the common coin by which the Englilh
payments were adjufted. After the conqueft, the
French folidus of twelvepence, which was in ufe among
the Normans, was called by the Englilh name of (hil¬
ling j and the Saxon (hilling of fourpence took a Nor¬
man name, and was called the groat, or great coin, be-
caufe it was the largcft Englifti coin then known in
England.
It has been the opinion of the bilhops Fleetwood and
Gibfon, and of the antiquaries in general, that, though
the method of reckoning by pounds, marks, and (hil¬
lings, as well as by pence and farthings, had been in
conftant ufe even from the Saxon times, long before the
Norman conqueft, there never was fuch a coin in Eng¬
land as either a pound or a mark, nor any (lulling, till
the year 1504 or 1505, when a few filver (hillings or
twelvepences were coined, which have long fince been
folely confined to the cabinets of colleftors.
Mr Clarke combats this opinion, alleging that fome
coins mentioned by Mr Folkes, under Edward I. were
probably Saxon (hillings new minted, and that Arch-
biftiop Aelfric exprefsly fays f, that the Saxons had
three names for their money, viz. mancufes, (hillings,
and pennies. He alfo urges the different value of the
Saxon (lulling at different times, and its uniform pro¬
portion to the pound, as an argument that their (lul¬
ling was a coin ; and the teftimony of the Saxon gof-
pels, in which the word we have Iran dated pieces offi¬
ver is rendered Jhillings, which, he fays, they would
hardly have done, if there had been no fuch coin as a
(hilling then in ufe. Accordingly the Saxons expreffed
their (hilling in Latin by fclus and argenteus. He far¬
ther adds, that the Saxon (hilling was never expreffed
hy folidus till after the Norman fettlements in England;
and howfoever it altered during the long period that
elapftd from the conqueft to the time of Henry VII. it
Vol. XIX. Part I.
was the moft conftant denomination of money in all pay¬
ments, though it was then only a fpecies of account, or
the twentieth part of the pound fterling: and when it
was again revived as a coin, it leffened gradually as the
pound fterling leffened, from the 28th of Edward III.
to the 43d of Elizabeth.
In the year 1560 there was a peculiar fort of (hilliuir
(truck in Ireland, of the value of ninepence Englifh,
which paffed in Ireland for twelvepence. The motto on
the reverfe was, pofui Deum adjutorem meum. Eighty-
two of thefe (hillings, according to Malynes, went to
the pound; they therefore weighed 20 grains, one
fourth each, which is fomewhat heavier in proportior*
than the Englilh (lulling of that time, 62 whereof went
to the pound, each weighing 92 grains feven-eighths ;
and the Irilh (hilling being valued at the Towner at nine-
pence Englifti, that is, one-fourth part lefs than the
Englilh (hilling, it (hould therefore proportion ably
weigh one-fourth part lefs, and its full weight be fome¬
what more than 62 grains; but fome of them found at
this time, though much worn, weighed 69 grains. In
the year 1598, five different pieces of money of thfo
kind were (truck in England for the fervice of the king¬
dom of Ireland. Thefe were (hillings to be current in
Ireland at twelvepence each ; half (hillings to be current,
at fixpence, and quarter (hillings at threepence. Pen¬
nies and halfpennies were alfo (truck of the fame kind,
and fent over for the payment of the army in Ireland.
The money thus coined was of a very bafe mixture of
copper and filver ; and two years after there were more
pieces of the fame kinds (truck for the fame fervice,
which were (till wmrfe ; the former being three ounces
of filver to nine ounces of copper; and thefe latter only
two ounces eighteen pennyweights to nine ounces two
pennyweights of the alloy.
The Dutch, Flemifh, and Germans, have likewife
their (hilling, called fchelin, fchilling, fcalin, &c. but
thefe not being of the fame weight or finenefs with the
Englifti (hilling, are not current at the fame value. The
Englifti (hilling is worth about 23 French fols; thofe of
Holland and Germany about 11 fols and a half; thofe
of Flanders about nine. The Dutch (hillings are alfo
cAXedfols de gros, becaufe equal to twrelve gros. The
Danes have copper (hillings worth about one-fourth of a
farthing fterling.
SHILL UK, a town in Africa on the banks of the
true Nile. The houfes are built of clay, and the clothing
of the inhabitants confifts of long grafs, which they pafs
round the waift and between the thighs. They are all
black, and both fexes (have their heads. Thefe people
have the dominion of the river, and exadt toll of all paf-
fengers. The meaning of the word Shilluk feems to be
unknown. When they tranfport Mahometans acrofs
the ferry, they fometimes (hew the importance which
their fituation gives them. After the Mahometan has
placed himfelf in the boat, they a(k him, who is the
mailer of that river ? The other replies Ulloh or Rub-
baric, God is the mafter of it. No, you muft fay that
fuch a one (naming his chief) is the mafter of it, or you
(hall not pafs. They are faid to be hofpitable to fuch
as come among them in a peaceable manner, and as ne¬
ver betraying thofe to whom they have once afforded
protedtion. The particulars of their worftiip have not
been deferibed. Shilluk, according to Mr Browne's
map, is in 130 N. Eat. 2 2° 26' E. Long.
H h SHILOH,
Shiloh.
* Arab.
L.ud. de
Lieu.
| Le Clerc
in Genef.
SHI [2
SHILOH, is a term famous among interpreters and
commentators upon Scripture. It is found (Gen. xlix.
10.) to denote the Meffiah. The patriarch Jacob fore¬
tells his coming in theie words \ “ The fceptre fhall not
depart from Judah, nor a lawgiver from between his
feet, until Shiloh come 5 and unto him lhall the gather¬
ing of the people be.” The Hebrew text reads, nbu> »0'
*2 VJ until Shiloh come. All Chriftian commentators
agree, that this word ought to be underflood of the
rvlefliah, or Jefus Chrift j but all are not agreed about
Its literal and grammatical fignification. St Jerome,
who tranflates it by ^ui mittendus ejl, manifeflly reads
Shiloach “ fent,” inilead of Shiloh. The Septuagint have
it xv iXS-,) Til xiroKttftivx xvtm } or, Eiwj av sAfbi a xtto-
xiirxi, (as if they had read tW indead of nbur), i. e.
“ Until the coming of him to whom it is referved
or, “ Till we fee arive that which is referved for him.”
It mud be owned, that the fignification of the He¬
brew word Shiloh is not well known. Seme trandate,
“ the fceptre fhall not depart from Judah, till he comes
to whom it belongs tStv or 'bu; initead of fbx 'b. O-
thers, “ till the coming of the peace maker 3” or, “ the
pacific j” or, “ of profperity,” nbizr profperatus efl. Sha-
lah fignifies, “ to be in peace, to be in prolperity
others, “ till the birth of him who fhail be born of a
woman that fhall conceive without the knowledge of a
man,” or icbu; fecundina, Jluxus * ; otherwiie, “ the
fceptre fliall not depart from Judah, till its end, its ruin ;
till the downfal of the kingdom of the Jews,” bxip or
nbw it has ceafcd, it has finished f. Some Rabbins have
taken the name Silok or Shiloh, as if it fignified the city
of this name in Paleftine : “ The fceptre diall not be
taken away from Judah till it comes to Shiloh ; till it
(hall he taken from him to be given to Saul at Shiloh.”
But in what part of Scripture is it faid, that Saul was
acknowledged as king or confecrated at Shiloh ? If we
would underhand it of Jeroboam the fon of Nebat, the
matter is dill as uncertain. The Scripture mentions no
aflembly at Shiloh that admitted him as king. A more
modern author derives Shiloh from nba>, fatigare, which
t’ometimes fignifies to be weary, to fuffer ; “ till his la¬
bours, his fufferings, his paffion, {hall happen.”
But not to amufe ourfelves about feeking out the
grammatical fignification of Shiloh, it is fufficient for
us to flrow, that the ancient Jews are in this matter
agreed with the Chridians : they acknowledge, that
this word dands for the MeJJiah the King. It is thus
that the paraphrads Onkelos and Jonathan, that the an¬
cient Hebrewr commentaries upo,n Genefis, and that the
Talmudids themfelves, explain it. If Jefus Chrid and
his apodles did not make ufe of this paffage to prove
the coming of the Mediah, it was becaufe then the com¬
pletion of this prophecy was not fufficiently manifed.
The fceptre dill continued among the Jews •, they had
dill kings of their own nation in the perfons of the He-
rods •, but foon after the fceptre was entirely taken
arvay from them, and has never been redored to them
lince.
The Jews feek in vain to put forced meanings upon
this prophecy of Jacob j faying, for example, that the
fceptre intimates the dominion of drangers, to which
they have been in fubjeflion, or the hope of feeing one
day the fceptre or fupreme power fettled again among
themfelves. It is eafy to perceive, that all this is con¬
trived to deliver themfelves out of perplexity. In vain
4-2 ] S H 1
likewife they take refuge in certain princes of the cap- Shlbh
tivity, whom they pretend to have fubfided beyond the H.
Euphrates, exercifing an authcrily over their nation ,
little differing from abfolute, and being of the race of
David. This pretended fucceffion of pdnees is per¬
fectly chimerical 5 and though at certain times they
could ihow a fucceflion, it continued but a dicrt time,
and their authority was too obfeure, and too much li¬
mited, to be the objedt of a prophecy fo remarkable as
this was.
SHINGLES, in building, fmall pieces of wood, or
quartered oaken boards, fawn to a certain fcantling, or,
as is more ufual, cleft to about an inch thick at one end,
and made like wedges, four or five inches broad, and
eight or nine inches long.
Shingles are ufed indead of tiles or dates, efpecialiy
for churches and fteepies ; however, this covering is
dear; yet, where tiles are very fcarce, and a ligi t co¬
vering is required, it is preferable to thatch •, ana where
they are made of good oak, cleft, and not fawed, and
well feafoned in water and the fun, they make a fure,
light, and durable covering.
The building is fird to be covered all over with boards,
and the (hingles nailed upon them.
SHIP, a general name for all large veffels, particu¬
larly thofe equipped with three mads and a bowfprit ;
the mads being compofed of a lowermad, topmad, and
(top gallant-mad : each of theie being provided with
yards, fails, &c. Ships, in general, are either employed
for war or merchandife.
SHIPS of War are vefiels properly equipped with ar¬
tillery, ammunition, and all the necefiary martial wea¬
pons and indruments for attack or defence. They are
didinguiflied from each other by their feveral ranks or
claffes, called rates, as follows : Ships of the fird rate
mount from 100 guns to no guns and upwards; fecond
rate, from 90 to 98 guns; third rate, from 64 to 74
guns 5 fourth rate, from 50 to 60 guns •, fifth rate, from
32 to 44 guns •, and fixth rates, from 20 to 28 guns.
See the article Rate. Vefiels carrying lefs than 20
guns are denominated Jloops, cutters, fre-jhips and bombs.
It has lately been propofed to reduce the number of thefe
rates, which would be a faving to the nation, and alfo
productive of feveral material advantages.
In Plate CCCCLXXX. is the reprefentation of a
fird rate, with rigging, &c. the fcveral parts of which
are as follows :
Parts of the hull.—Fig. 1. A, The cathead 5 B, The ^
fore-chain-wales, or chains •, C, The main-chains ; ^,CcctLxxjr
The mizen-chains ; E, The entering port j F, The I-
hawfe-holes •, G, The poop-lanterns j H, The chefs-
tree ; I, The head ; K, The ftern.
I, The bowfprit. 2, Yard and fail. 3, Gammon¬
ing. 4, Manrop. 5, Bobday. 6, Spritfail-dieets. 7,
Pendants. 8, Braces and pendants. 9, Halliards. 10,
Lifts. 11, Clue-lines- 12, Spritfail-horfes. 13, Bupt-
lines. 14, Standing lifts. 15, Bowfprit-fliroud. 16,
Jib-boom. 17, Jibday and fail. 18, Halliards. 19,
Sheets. 20, Horfes. 21, Jib-guy. 12, Spritfail-topfail
yard. 23, Horfes. 24, Sheets. 25, Lifts. 26, Braces
and pendants. 27, Cap of bowfprit. 28, Jack ftaflf.
29, Truck. 30, Jack flag—31, Forernajl. 32, Run¬
ner and tackle. 33, Shrouds. 34, Laniards. 35, Stay
and laniard. 36, Preventer-day and laniard. 37,
Wool-ding of the mad. 38, Foreyard and fail. 39^
Horfes.
SHI [
SSIp. Horfes, 40,' Top. 41, Crowfoot. 42, Jeers. 43,
—-v Yard-tackles. 44, Lifts. 45, Braces and pendants.
46, Sheets. 47, Foretacks. 48, Bowlines and bridles.
40, Fore buntlines. 30, Fore leechlines. 51, Pre¬
venter-brace. 5 2, Futtock-flrrouds.—53, Foretof) vnqft.
.'4, Shrouds and laniards. 55, Foretop-fail yard and
fail. 56, Stay and fail. 57, Runner. 58, Back-
ftays. 59, Halliards. 60, Lifts. 61, Braces and pen¬
dants. 62, Horfes. 63, Clew-lines. 64, Bowlines and
bridles. 65, Reef-tackles. 66, Sheets. 67, Buntlmes.
68, Crofs trees. 69, Cap. 70, Foretop-gallant-maft.
71, Shrouds. 72, Yard and fail. 73, Backftays. 74,
Stay. 75, Lifts. 76, Clewlines. 77, Braces and pen¬
dants. 78, Bowlines and bridles. 79, Flag-ftaff. 80,
Truck. 81, Flag-ftay-ftaff. 82, Flag of the lord high
admiral.—83, Mainmajl. 84, Shrouds. 85, Laniards.
86, Runner and tackle. 87, Futtock-flirouds. 88,
Top-lantern. 89, Crank of ditto. 90, Stay. 91. Pre¬
venter-Hay. 92, Stay-tackles. 93, Woolding of the
mad. 94. Jeers. 95, Yard-tackles. 96, Lifts. 97,
Braces and pendants. 98, Horfes. 99, Sheets. 100,
Tacks. 101, Bowlines and bridles. 102, Crow-foot/
103, Cap. 104, Top. 105, Buntlines. 106, Leech¬
lines. 107, Yard and fail.—108, Main-topmajl. IC9,
Shrouds and laniards. 1 ro, Yard and fail, it1* iut-
tock-fhrouds. 112, Backftays. 113, Stay. 114, Stay-
fail and halliards. 115, Tye. 116, Flalliards. 117,
Lifts. 118, Clewlines. 119, Braces and pendants.
120* Horfes. 121, Sheets. 122, Bowlines and bridles.
123, Buntlincs. 124, Reef-tackles. 125, Crofs-trees.
126, Cap.—127, Maintop gallantmqft. 128, Shroud,
and laniards. 129, Yard and faik 130, Backftays.
131, Stay. 132, Stay fail and halliards. 133, Lifts.
134, Braces and pendants. 135’ Bowlines and bridles,
136, Clewlines. 137, Flagftaff. 138, Truck. 139
Flagftaff-ftay. 140, Flag liandard.—141, Mhenmaji.
142^ Shrouds and laniards. 143, Cap. 144, Yard
and fail. 145, Block for fignal halliards. 146, Sheet,
147, Pendant lines. 148, Peckbrails. 149, Stayfail.
1 50, Stay. 151, Derrick and fpan. 152, Top. 153,
Crofsjack yard. 154, CroLjack lifts. 155, Crofsjack
braces. 156, Crofsjack flings.—157, Mi^entop-majh
1 58, Shrouds and laniards. X 59, Yard and fail. 160,
Backftays. 161, Stay. 162, Halliards. 163, Lifts.
164, Braces and pendants. 165, Bowlines and bridles.
166, Sheets. 167, Clewlines. 168, Stayfaik 169,
Crolstrees. 170, Cap. 171, Flagftaff. 172, Flagftaff-
ftay. 173, Truck. 174, Flag, union. 175, Enfign-
ftaff. 176, Truck. 177, Enfign. 178, Stern ladder.
179, Bower cable.
Plate Fig. 2. Plate CCCCLXXXI. is a vertical longitudi-
tccclxxxi. nal feftion of a firft rate fliip of war, rvith references to
F‘g- 2. the principal parts, which are as follorvs:
A, Is the head, containing,— 1, The ftem ; 2, The
knee of the head or cutwater 5 3, l he lower and upper
cheek; 4, The trail-board; 5’ J figure > 6’ I he
gratings; 7, The brackets ; 8, T.he falfe ftem *, 9, I he
breafl hooks *, 10, The haufe holes ; 11, The bulkhead
forward } 12, The cathead 5 13, The cathook 5 14, Ne-
ceffary feats 3 15, The manger within board 3 16, The
bowfprit.
B, Upon the forecaflle—17, The gratings 3 18, 1 he
partners of the mart 3 19, The gunwale 3 20, The bel¬
fry 3 21, The funnel for fmoke 3 22. The gangway go¬
ing off the forecaftle 3 23, The forecaftle guns.
43 1 3 H 1  
C, In the forecaftle—24, The door of the bulkhead
forward 3 25, Officers cabins 3 26, Staircale 3 27, Fore¬
top-fail iheet bits 3 28, The beams 3 29, The carlings.
D, The middle gun deck forward—30, The fore¬
jeer bits 3 31, The oven and furnace ot copper 3 32,
The captain’s cook room 3 33, The ladder or way to
the forecaftle.
E, The lower gun-deck forward—34, The knees fore
and aft 3 35, The fpirketings, or the firft ftreak next
to each deck, the next under the beams being called
clamps ; 36. The beams of the middle gun deck tore and
aft 3 37, The carlings of the middle gun-deck fore and
aft; 38, The fore-bits 3 39, The after or main ^^3
40. The hatchway to the gunner’s and boatfwain’s
ilore-rooms 3 41. The jeer capilan.
F, The orlop—42, 43, 44, The gunner’s, boatfwain’s,
and carpenter’s ftore-rooms 3 45, The beams of the lower
gun-deck 3 46, 47* Ihe pillars and the nders, foie and
aft; 48, The bulkhead of the ftore-rooms.
G, The hold—49, 50, 51, The foot-hook rider, the
floor rider, and the ftandard, fore and aft 3 52, ihe
pillars 3 53, The ftep of the foremaft 3 54, The kelfon,
or falfe keel, and dead rifing 3 55, The dead-wood.
H, At midfhips in the hold—56, The floor timbers 3
57, The keel; 58, The well 3 59, The chain-pump;
60, The ftep of the mainmaft 3 61, 62, Beams and car-
lings of the orlop, fore and aft.
I, The orlop amidfhips—63, ihe cable tire ; 64, The
main hatchway.
K, The lower gun-deck amidfliips—65, The laddef
leading up to the middle gun-deck 3 66, ihe lower tire
of ports.
L, The middle gun-deck amidftiip—67, The middle
tire of ports 3 68, The entering port 3 69, The main
jeer bits 3 70, Twifted pillars or ftanchions 3 71, The
capftan 3 72, Gratings 3 73, The ladder leading to the
upper deck.
M, The upper gun-deck amidfnips—74» ihe main-
topfail-flieet bits 3 75, The upper partners of the main¬
maft 3 76, The gallows on which fpare topmafts &c.
are laid 3 77, The foreffieet blocks 3 78, The rennets 3
79, The gunwale 3 80, The upper gratings 3 8r,
The drift brackets; 82, The pifs dale 3 83, The cap¬
ftan pall. '
N, Abaft the mainmaft—84, The gangway off the
quarterdeck 3 83, i he bulkhead of the coach 3 86, i he
ftaircafe down to the middle gun-deck 3 87, ihe beams
of the upper deck 5 88, The gratings about the main¬
maft 3 89, The coach or council-chamber 3 90, The
ftaircafe up to the quarterdeck.
O, The quarterdeck—91, The beams 3 92, The car-
lings 3 93, The partners of the mizenmaft 3 94, The
gangway up to the poop 3 05, ihe bulkhead of the
cuddy.
P, The poop—96, The trumpeter’s cabin ; 97, The
taffarel.
£>, The captain’s cabin.
R, The cuddy, ufually divided for the mafter and fe-
cretary’s officers.
S, The ftate-room, out of which is made the bed¬
chamber and other conveniences for the commander hi
chief 3 98, The entrance into the gallery 3 99, Ihe
bulkhead of the great cabin 3 x 00, The ftern lights and
after galleries.
T, The ward-room, allotted for the lieutenants and
H h 2 marine
SHI
^marine officers: ioi, The lower galleryj 102
" Peerage and bulkhead of the wardroom; 103, The
v.-hipftaff, commanding the tiller j 104, The after flair-
caie leading down to the lower gun-deck.
V, Several officers cabins abaft the mainmaft, where
the foldiers generally keep guard.
v . , I he gun room—105, Ihe tiller commanding the
rudder ; 106, Ihe rudder; 107, The flern-poit : 108,
.1 he tiller tranlom ; 109, Ihe leveral tranfoms, viz. 1,
3’ 4> 5 > no, Ihe gun-room ports, or flern-chafe;
ill, I ne bread-room icuttle, out of the gun-room;
11 2, I he main capftan ; 113,! he pall of the capftan ;
114, The partner ; 115, The bulkhead of the bread-
room.
X, The bread-room.
y, J ne fleward’s room, where all proviflons are
weighed and ferved out.
Z, 1 he cockpit, where are fubdivifions for the purfer,
the iurgeon, and his mates.
A A, Ihe platform or orlop, where provifion is made
for the wounded in the time ot fervice; 116, The hold
ftbaft the main-maft ; 117, Ihe ftep of the mizen-maft ;
11 8, Ihe kellon, or falle keel; 119, The dead wood, or
riling.
Ships of war are fitted out either at the expence of
the flate or by individuals. Thofe fitted out at the pub¬
lic expence are called King1sJhips, and are divided into
Jhips of the /me, frigates, Jloops, &c. For an account of
each of thefe, fee the rei'peftive articles. Ships of war
fitted out by individuals are called privateers. Sec the
article Privateer.
Armed-SHIP. See ARMED-Ship.
Bomb-SniP. See Bomb Veffels.
Double-Snip. See SniP-Building.
Fire-Snip. See Fire-Ship.
Hofpital-SniP, a veffel fitted up to attend on a fleet of
men of war, and receive their fick or wmunded ; for
which purpole her decks fliould be high, and her ports
fufficiently large. Her cables ought alfo to run upon
Plate
ccccLxxxrx,
the upper deck, to the end that the beds or cradles may
be more commodioufly placed between decks, and admit
a free paffage of the air to difpeife that which is offenfive
qr corrupted.
Merchant-Snip, a veflel employed in commerce to
carry commodities of various forts from one port to
another.
The largeft merchant ftvips are thofe employed by the
different companies of merchants who trade to the Eaft
indies. They are in general larger than our 40 gun
{hips; and are commonly mounted with 20 guns on their
Upper-deck, which are nine pounders; and lix on their
quarter-deck, which are fix pounders.
Regifer-SniP. See REGISTER-Ship.
Store-SHIP, a vefiel employed to carry artillery or na¬
val ftores for the ufe of a fleet, fortrefs, or garrifon.
Tranfport-SniP, is generally ufed to conduft troops
from one place to another.
Befides the different kinds of (hips abovementioned,
which are denominated from the purpofe for which
they are employed, veffels have alfo, in general, been
named according to the different manner of rigging
them. It would be an endlefs, and at the fame time
an unneceffary talk, to enumerate all the different kinds
occclxxxi 0f veffels with refpeS to their rigging ; and there-
fore a few only are here taken notice of. Fig. 3.
[ 244 ] SHI
The is zfjip which would be converted into a bark by flap¬
ping the mieen mail of its yards and the fails belong¬
ing to them. If each mart, its correfponding topmait
and topgallant-maft, inftead of being compoied of le-
parate pieces of wood, w-ere all of one continued piece,
then this veflel with very little alteration would be a
polacre. Fig. 4. repiefents a fnow ; fig. 5. a b i/a rule r 1
fig. 6. a brig; fig. 7. a ketch; fig. 8." a fchooner;
fig. 9. a foop; fig. 10. a ‘xebec ; fig. 11. a galliot; fig.p^c“
1 2. a digger ; fig. z gailey under fail; fig. 14. ditto fc'
rowing.
Ships are alfo fometimes named according to the dif¬
ferent modes of their conflrudtion. Thus we fay, a cat-
built fliip, &c.
To Ship, is either ufed actively, as to embark any
perfon or put any thing aboard ihip : or paffively, to re¬
ceive any thing into a fhip; as, “ we (hipped a heavy
fea at three o’clock in the morning.”
io Snip, alfo implies to fix any thing in its place;
as, to Ihip the oars, that is, to put them in their row-
locks ; to Ihip the fvvivel guns, is to fix them in their
fockets ; to Ihip the handfpokes, &c.
Machine for drawing Bolts out of Snips, an inftru-
ment invented by Mr William Hill for this purpofe.
His account of which is as follows *. * _ r
“ Fir ft, The ufe of this machine is to draw the kelfon tiJislftbe
and dead wrood bolts out, and to draw the knee of the Society for
head bolts—Secondly, The heads of the kelfon boltsthe Encou~
heretofore were all obliged to be driven through the kel-
fon, floor-timbers, and keel, to get them out; by this ac. voi. *
means the kelfon is often entirely deftroyed, and the large
hole the head makes materially wounds the floors; and
frequently, when the bolt is much corroded, it fcarfs, and
the bolt comes out of the fide of the keel. Thirdly,
The dead-wrood bolts that are driven with tw-o or three
drifts, are feldom or never got out, by which means the
dead- wood is condemned, when fome of it is really fer-
viceable.—Fourthly, In drawing the knee of the head-
bolts, fometimes the knee ftarls off, and cannot be got
Plate
to again, but furs up, and with this machine may be
drawn in ; for it has been proved to have more power
in flat ting a bolt than the maul.”
In fig. 1. “ A, A, reprefent tw© ftrong male ferews, Piate
working in female ferews near the extremities of the cccdxxaijfc
cheeks, againft plates of iron E, E. C C is the boltFlS-1*
to be drawn; which, being held between the chaps of
the machine at DD, is, by turning the ferews by the
lever B, forced upwards out of the wood or plank of
the fliip. F, F, are two dogs, with hooks at their low¬
er extremities; which, being driven into the plank, ferve
to fupport the machine till the chaps have got fall hold
of the bolt. At the upper part of there dogs are rings
pa fling through holes in a collar, moveable near the
heads of the lerews. Fig. 2. is a view of the upper fidefi^ 2
of the cheeks when joined together ; a, a, the holes in *
which the ferews wrork ; b, the chaps by wffiich the bolts
are drawn. Fig. 3. The under fide of the cheek : a, a, y
the holes in which the ferews work ; b, the chaps by *** ^
which the bolts are drawn, and where the teeth that
gripe the bolt are more diftinftly Ihown. Fig. 4. OneF-
of the cheeks feparated from the other, the letters refer- ^
ring as in fig. 2. and 3.
This machine was tried in his majefly’s yard at Dept¬
ford, and was found of the greateft utility. “ Firft, it
drew a bolt that was driven down fo tight as only to go
one
SHI f 245 1 SHI
double beaded maul, tickliih fituatlon, tbe after-yards mufl be braced for- Ship,
ward, and the fore-yards the contrary way : ihe will lay l< -t
lafe, as the buoy can De kept on the lee quarter, or fup-
pole the helm is aport, as long as the buoy is on the
larboard quarter. With the helm thus, and the wind
right aft, or nearly lb, the ftarboard main and foie bra¬
ces Ihould be hauled in. This luppofes the main braces
to Itead forward. .
When the fnip begins to tend to leew’ard, and the Tending to
buoy gomes on the weather-quarter, the firft thing tolefwar<?
be done is to brace about the fore-yard ; and when the fhip muir
wind comes near the beam, fet the fore-ftayfail, and be fet a-
keep it Handing until it (hakes 5 then brace all the head,
yards fl a p forward, efpecially if it is likely to blow
one inch in fixteen blows with a
' and was well clenched below : the bolt drew the ring a
confiderable way into the wood, and wire drew itlelf
through, and left the ring behind. Secondly, it drew a
bolt out of the Venus’s dead wood that could not be got
out by the maul. That part of it which went through
the keel was bent clofe up to the lower part of the dead-
wood, and the machine drew the bolt Hraight, and
drew it out with eafe. It alfo drew a kelfon bolt out of
the Stanley Weft Indiaman, in Meffrs Well’s yard,
Deptford •, which being a bolt of two drifts, could not be
driven out.
Management of SHIPS at fingle anchor, is the method
of taking care of a Ihip while riding at fingle anchor in
a tide-way, by preventing her from fouling her anchor,
to Young
Mariners
Jt id hig at
Anchor in
moderate
Weather.
When the
fliip will
back.
&c. The following rules for this purpofe, with which
* Taylor's we have been favoured by Henry Taylor * of North
Injlrutlions vvJ]i ke found of the utmoft confequencc.
Riding in a tide-way, with a frefh-of-vvind, the (hip
Ihould have what is called a jhort or windward fervice,
fay 45 or 50 fathoms of cable, and always Iheered to
windward (a), not always with the helm hard down,
but more or lefs fo according to the ftrength or weak-
nefs of the tide. It is a known faift, that many (hips
flieer their anchors home, drive on board of other fhips,
and on the fands near which they rode, before it has
been difeovered that the anchor had been moved from
the place where it rvas let go.
When the wind is crofs, or nearly crofs, off fliore, or
in the oppofite direction, fhips will always back. This
is done by the mizen-topfail, aflifted, if needful, by the
mizen flay fail ; fuch as have no mizen topfail commonly
ufe the main-topfail, or if it blows frefli, a topgallant-fail,
or any fuch fail at the gaff.
In backing, a (hip ftiould always wind with a taught
cable, that it may be certain the anchor is drawn round.
In cafe there is not a fufficiency of wind for that purpofe,
the drip fiiould be hove apeak.
t Riding with the wind afore the beam, the yards fhould
to be Ul ^ f ke traced forward j if abaft the beam, they are to be
braced. braced all aback.
3 If the wind is fo far aft that the flrip will not back
Riding (which fhould not be attempted if, when the tide eafes,
the fhip forges ahead, and brings the buoy on the lee
quarter), fhe muft be fet ahead : if the wind is far aft,
and blows frefli, the utmoft care and attention is neccf-
fary, as (hips riding in this fituation often break their
flieer, and come to windward of their anchors again.
It fhould be obferved, that when the fhip lies in this
How the
windward
tide in dan¬
ger of
breaking
her flieer.
ft rone.
If byxig in the aforefaid pofition, and flie breaks her How "to
flieei, brace about the mam-yard immediately j if fhe manage
recovers and brings the buoy on the lee or larboard quar-when the
ter, let the main-yard be again braced about j but if flic Plip(!ireaks
come to a flieer the other way, by bringing the buoy Kr ie£r°
on the other quarter, change the helm and brace the
fore-yard to.
Riding leeward tide with more cable than the wind- When a
ward fervice, and expedting the fhip will go to wind-longfer'
ward of her anchor, begin as foon as the tide eafes tOan^the1^’
fhorten iq the cable. I. his is often hard work , hut it fliip is like-
is neceffary to be done, otherwife the anchor may be b t0 g° t0
fouled by the great length of cable the fliip has to draw w^ward‘
round 5 but even if that could be done, the cable would
be damaged againft the bows or cut-water. It is to
be obferved, that when a fhip rides windward tide the
cable fhould be cackled from the fliort fervice towards
the anchor, as far as will prevent the bare part touching
the fliip.
When the fliip tends to windward and muft be fet a-
head, hoift the fore-ftayfail as foon as it will ftand, and
when the buoy comes on the lee quarter, haul down the
fore-ftayfail, brace to the fore-yard, and put the helm
a-lee 5 for till then the helm muft be kept a-weather and
the yards full. ^
When the fliip rides leeward tide, and the wind in-How t©
creafes, care fliould betaken to give her more cable manaSe in
in time, otherwife the anchor may ftart, and probably 3 ftorm*
it will be troublefome to get her brought up again ;
and this care is the more neceffary when the fliip rides
in the haufe of another fhip. Previous to giving a long
fervice it is ufual to take a weather-bit, that is, a turn
of the cable over the vvindlafs end, fo that in veering
away the fliip will be under command. The fervice
ought
(a) It has been thought by fome theorifts, that fhips fliould be fheered to leeward of their anchors 5 but experi¬
ence and the common practice of the beft informed feamen are againft that opinion : for it is found, that when a
fhip rides leeward tide and flieered to windward, with the wind two or three points upon the bow, and blowing hard
in the interval between the fqualls, the ftieer will draw her towards the wind’s eye j fo that when the nexHTquali ‘
comes, before fhe be preffed aftream of her anchor, it is probable there will be a lull again, and the fpring which
the cable got by'the fheer will greatly eafe it during the fquall.
±.very feaman knows that no fliip without a rudder, or the helm left loofe, will wear ; they always in fuch fitua-
tions fly to : this proves that the wind prefling upon the quarter and the helm alee, a fliip will be lefs liable to break. -
her fheer than wnen the helm is a-weather. Befides, if the helm is a-lee when flie breaks h6r flieer, it will be a-
weather when the wind comes on the other quarter, as it ought to be until flie either fwing to leeward, or bring
the buoy on the other quarter. Now if the fliip breaks her flieer with the helm a-weather, it throws her head to
the wind fo fuddenly as fcarce to give time to brace the yards about, and very probably flie will fall over her anchor *‘
before the fore-ftayfail can be got.up.
SHI [ 246 ] SHI
3
Caution
refpedling
the anchor
watch.
V
The parti¬
cular duty
•f the chief
mate.
* Vhilofo-
phical
Tranfac-
tions,
-vol. ixx.
part 1.
ought to be greafed, which will prevent its chafing in
the haufe.
If the gale continues to increafe, the topmafts fiiould
be {truck in time ; but the fore yard Ihould feidom, if
ever, be lowered down, that in cafe of parting the fore-
fail may be ready to be fet. At fuch times there (hould
be more on deck than the common anchor-watch, that
no accident may happen from inattention or falling a-
fleep.
In a tide-way a fecond anchor {hould never be let
go but when abfolutely necefiary ; for a fhip will lome-
times ride eafier and fafer, efpecially if the fea runs high,
with a very long (cope of cable and one anchor, than with
lefs length and two cables; however, it is advifable, as a
preventive, when {hips have not room to drive, and the
night is dark, to let fall a fecond anchor under foot, with
a range of cable along the deck. If this is not thought
neceflary to be done, the deep-fea lead {hould be thrown
overboard, and the line frequently handled by the watch,
that they may be allured lire rides fall.
If at any time the anchor-watch, prefuming on their
own knowledge, {hould wind the {hip, or fuffer her to
break her {beer without calling the mate, he {hould im¬
mediately, or the very firfl opportunity, oblige the crew
to heave the anchor in fight ; which will prevent the
ccmmifTion of the like fault again •, for befides the {hare
of trouble the watch will have, the reit of the crew will
blame them for neglecting their duty.
Prudent mates feldorn lie a week in a road-flead
without heaving their anchor in fight •, even though they
have not the leail fufpicion of its being foul. There
are other reafons why the anchor {hould be looked at j
■fcmetimes the cable receives damage by fweeping wrecks
or anchors that have been loft, or from rocks or ftones;
and it is often neceflary to trip the anchor, in order to
take a clearer birth, which {hould be done as often as
any fhip brings up too near.
Methodfor the fafe removal of fuch SHIPS as have
been driven on f:ore. For this purpofe empty cafks are
ufually employed to float oft' the vcflel, efpecially if fhe
is fmall, and at the fame lime near the port to which it
is propofed to conduft her. In other cafes, the follow¬
ing method adopted by Mr Barnard * will anfwcr.
“ On January 1. 1779 (fays Mr Barnard), in a moft
dreadful florrn, the York Eaft Indiaman, of eight hun¬
dred tons, homeward bound, with a pepper cargo, part¬
ed her cables in Margate roads, and was driven on ihore,
within one hundred feet of the head and thirty feet of
the fide of Margate pier, then drawing twenty-two feet
fix inches water, the flew of a good fpring tide being
only fourteen feet at that place.
“ On the third of the fame month I went down, as a
{hip-builder, to afiift, as much as lay in my power, my
worthy friend Sir P.ichard Hctham, to whom the fliip
belonged. I found her perfectly upright, and her {here
(or fide appearance) the fame as when fiift built, but
funk to the twelve feet water-mark fore and aft ia a bed
of chalk mixed with a fliffblue clay, exactly the Ihape
of her body below that draft of water \ and from the
rudder being torn from her as {he flruck coming on
fhore, and the violent agitation of the fea after her be¬
ing there, her ftern rvas fo greatly injured as to admit
free accefs thereto, which filled her for four days equal
to the flow of the tide. Having fully informed myfelf
,of her fituation and the flow of fpring-tides, and being
clearly of opinion file might be again got oft*, I recom¬
mended, as the flrft neceflaiy Hep, the immediate dif-
charge of the cargo j and, in the progrefs of that buli-
nefs, I found the tide always flowed to the fame height
on the fhip 5 and when the cargo was half difeharged,
and I knew the remaining part Ihould not make her
draw more than eighteen feet water, and while I was
obferving the water at twenty-two feet fix inches by the
fhip’s marks, {he inftantiy lifted to feventeen feet eight
inches j the rvater and air being before excluded by her
preffure on the clay, and the atmofphere atfting upon
her upper part equal to fix hundred tons, which is the
weight of water difplaced at the difference ol thefe two
drafts of water.
“ The moment the fliip lifted, I difeovered fine had
received more damage than was at firft apprehended, her
leaks being fuch as filled her from four to eighteen feet
water in an hour and a half. As nothing effebtual was
to be expelled from pumping, feveral fcuttles or holes
in the fliip’s fide were made, and valves fixed thereto,
to draw off the water at the loweft ebb of the tide, to
facilitate the difeharge of the remaining part of the c;:r-
go , and, after many attempts, I lucceeded in an exter¬
nal application of flieep-fkins feWed on a fail and thruft
under the bottom, to flop the body of water from ruin¬
ing fo furioufiy into the fliip. This bufinefs effetfted,
moderate pumping enabled us to keep the fliip to about
fix feet water at low water, and by a vigorous effort we
could bring the fliip fo light as (when the cargo fliould
be all difeharged) to be eafily removed into deeper water.
But as the external application might be difturbed by
fo doing, or totally removed by the agitation of the
{hip, it was abfolutely neceflary to provide feme per¬
manent fecurity for the lives of thofe who were to na¬
vigate her to the river Thames. I then recommended
as the cheapeft, quickeft, and moft effedlual plan, to lay
a deck in the hold, as low as the water could be pump¬
ed to, framed fo folidiy and fecurely, and caulked fo
tight, as to fwim the ftiip independent of her own leaky
bottom.
“ Beams of fir-timber twelve inches fquare ■were pla¬
ced in the hold under every lower-deck beam in the
Ihip, as loiv as the water would permit; thefe were in
two pieces, for the conveniency of getting them down,
and alfo for the better fixing them of an exaft length,
and well bolted together when in their places. Over
thefe were laid long Dantzic deals of two inches and
a half thick, well nailed and caulked. Againft the
fliip’s fides, all fore and aft, was vHl nailed a piece of
fir twelve inches broad and fix inches thick on the low¬
er and three inches on the upper edge, to prevent the
deck from rifing at the ndq. Over the deck, at every
beam, was laid a crofs piece of fir timber fix inches deep
and twelve inches broad, reaching from the pillar of
the hold to the fliip’s fide, on which the ftiores were to
be placed to refill the preffure of the water beneath.
On each of thefe, and againft the lower-deck beam, at
equal diftances from the fide and middle of the {hip, was
placed an upright fliore, fix inches by twelve, the lower
end let two inches into the crofs piece. From the foot
of this fliore to the ftrip’s fide, under the-end of every
lower deck beam, was placed a diagonal fhore fix inch¬
es by twelve, to eafe the fhip’s deck of part of the flram
by throwing it on the fide. An upright {here of three
inches by twelve was placed from the end of every crcfs
2
piece
S H I
Ship. piece to tlie lower deck beams at the fide, and cne of
three inches by twelve on the midihip end of every crofs
piece to the lower deck beam, and nailed to the pillars
in the hold. Two firm tight bulkheads or partitions
were made as near the extremes of the fhip as pofiible.
The ceiling or infide plank of the llrip was very fecurely
s H l
caulked up to the lower deck, and the whole formed a
complete flrip with a fiat bottom within fide, to iwim the
outlide leaky one ; and that bottom being depreffed fix
feet below the external water, refitted the {hip’s weight
above it equal to five hundred and eighty-one tons, and
fafely conveyed her to the dry-dock at Deptford.”
t 247 ]
S H I P - B U I L D I N G.
r
Definition.
2
Ililtory.
SHIP-BUILDING, or Naval Architecture,
is the art of conftructing a fhip fo as to anfwer a
particular purpofe either of war or merchandife.
To whom the world is indebted for the invention of
{hips, is, like all other things of equal antiquity, un¬
certain.
A very fmall portion of art or contrivance was feen
in the firit fhips : they tvere neither ftrong nor durable 5
but con filled only of a few planks laid together, with¬
out beauty or ornament, and juft fo compared as to
keep out the water. In fome places they were only the
hulks or flocks of trees hollowed, and then coniifted
only of one piece of timber. Nor was w'ood alone ap¬
plied to this ufe 5 but any other buoyant materials, as
the Egyptian reed papyrus; or leather, of which the
primitive flips were frequently compofed •, the bot om
and fides being extended on a frame of thin battens or
fcantlings, of tlexible wood, or begirt with ivickers.
fuch as we have frequently beheld amdngft the Ameri¬
can lavages. In this manner they were often navigated
upon the rivers of Ethiopia, Egypt, and Sabsean Arabia,
even in latter times. But in the firft of them, we find
no mention of any thing but leather or hides fewed to¬
gether. In a veffel of this kind, Dardanus fecured his
retreat to the country afterwards called Troas, when he
was compelled by a terrible deluge to forfake his former
habitation of Samothrace. According to Virgil, Cha¬
ron’s infernal boat was of the fame compofition.
But as the other arts extended their influence, naval
architeblure likewife began to emerge from the gloom
of ignorance and barbarifm ; and as the thips of thofe
ages were increafed in bulk, and better proportioned
for commerce, the appearance of the floating citadels
ofunufual form, full of living men, flying with feeming-
ly expanded wings over the furface of the untravelled
ocean, ftruck the ignorant people with terror and afto-
nithment : and hence, as we are told by Ariftophanes,
arofe the fable of Perfeus flying to the Gorgons, who
was actually carried thither in a {hip ! Hence, in all
probability, the famous ftory of Triptolemus riding on
a winged dragon is deduced, only becaufe he failed from
Athens, in the time of great dearth, to a more plentiful
country, to fupply the neceffities of his people. The
fiftion of the flving horfe Pegafus may be joined with
thefe, who, as fevetal mythologifts report, was nothing
but a fhip with fails, and thence faid to be the offspring
of Neptune the fovereign of the fea •, nor does there ap¬
pear any other foundation for the llories of griffins, or
of {hips transformed into birds' and fifties, which we fo
often meet rvilh in the ancient poets. So acceptable to
the firft ages of the world were inventions of this na¬
ture, that whoever made any improvements in naviga¬
tion or naval architeflure, building new {hips better fit¬
ted for ftrength or ftviftnefs than thofe ufed before, or Hlftory.
rendered the old more commodious by additional contri-
Vances, or difcove ed countries unknown to former tra¬
vellers, were thought worthy of the greatett honours,
and often affociated into the number of then deified he¬
roes. Hence we have in aflronomy the figns of Aries
and Taurus, which were no other than two {hips : the
former Iran {ported Phryxus from Greece to Colchos,
and the latter Europa from Phoenicia to Crete. Ar¬
go, Pegafus, and Perfeus, were likewife new fiiips of a
different fort from the former, which being greatly ad¬
mired by the barbarous and uninftmfted people of thole
times, were tranflated amongft the ftars, in comme¬
moration of their inventors, and metamorphofed into
conftellations by the poets of their own and of fucceed-
ing ages.
The chief parts, of which fhips anciently confifted,
were three, viz. the belly, the prow, and the fterti: thefe
were again compofed of other fmaller parts, which fhall
be briefly deferibed in their order. In the defeription,
we chiefly follow Scheffer, who has fo copioufly treated
this fubjeft, and with fuch induftry and learning col-
lefted whatever is neceffary to illuftrate it, that very
little room is left for enlargement by thole who incline
to purfue this inveftigation.
1. In the belly, or middle part of the (hip, there was
carina, or the t; keel,” which was compofed of
wood : it was placed at the bottom of the fhip, being
deligned to cut and glide through the waves, and there¬
fore was not broad, but narrow and {harp ; whence it
may be perceived that not all fhips, but only the
which (hips of war were called, whofe bellies were
ftraight, and of a fmall circumference, were provided
with keels, the reft having ufually ftat bottoms. Around
the outfide of the keel were fixed pieces of wood, to
prevent it from being damaged when the fhip was firft
launched into the water, or afterwards ftruck on any
rocks ; thefe were called in Latin cunei.
Next to the keel was tpccAms the “ pump-well, or
well-room,” within which was contained the ccvrXion, or
“ pump,” through which water was conveyed out of
the {hip.
After this, there was rgonts, or the i: fecond
keel,” fomewhat refembiing what is now called ief-
fon ; it was placed beneath the pump, and called
Y'Ot’hY.wn uXartTroouH \ by fome it is faifely fuppofed to bfe
the fame with
Above the pump was an hollow place, called by He¬
rodotus KoiXy in vijj?, by Pollux ytsrej and becaufe
large and capacious, after the form of a belly •, by the
Latins tejlndo. This was formed by crocked ribc, with
which it was flirronnded, which were pieces of wood
rifing from the keel upwards, and called by Kefycnhw
ye(««S.
SHIP-BUILDING,
and by others 6y»«<X<#, the belly of the fliip being
contained within them : in Latin, cq/lce ; and in Eng-
lilh, timbers. Upon thefe were placed certain planks,
which Ariftophanes calls evTSg*;»»#j, or
The Trtevgxiy la ter a, or “ lides” of the ihip, encom-
paffed all the former parts on both hands $ thefe were
compofed of large rafters extended from prow to ftern,
and called £a>s-»j££j, and £ufttoip.uTx, becaufe by them the
whole fabric was begirt or lurrounded.
In both thefe fides the rowers had their places, call-
ed and s^A/nt, in Latin Jbri and tran/lra, placed
above one another ; the lowed; was called and
thofe that laboured therein B-xhupiet ; the middle,
and the men fyXioi ; the uppermoft S-gavw, whence the
rowers were termed S-getvm**. In thefe apartments were
fpaces through which the rowers put their oars : thefe
were fometimes one continued vacuity from one end to
the other, called Tgct<pti%, but more ufually diftinft holes,
each of which was defigned for a Angle oar ; thefe
were ftyled t^vtcyi^xtic, as alfo becaufe
not unlike the eyes of living creatures. All of them were
by a more general name termed lyy.twxxy from containing
the oars j but tyKwxii feems to have been another thing,
fignifying the fpaces between the banks of oars on each
Ade, where the paffengers appear to have been placed.
On the top of all there was a paffage or place to walk,
called rx^xHog, and as joining to the
or uppermoft bank of oars.
2. the “ prow, or fore deck,” whence it is
fometimes called jnsr^a-ay, 4md commonly diftinguifhed
by other metaphorical titles taken from human faces,
in fome fhips there is mention of two prows, as alfo
two fterns ; fuch as Danaus’s fhip adorned by Minerva
when he fled from Egypt. It was ufual to beautify
the prow with gold and various forts of paint and co¬
lours $ in the primitive times red wras moft in ufe ;
whence Homer’s fhips were generally dignified with
the titles of fuXrtirx^oiy and tyonix.oTr*ipioi} or “ red fa¬
ced j” the blue, likewife, or fky-colour, was frequently
made ufe of, as bearing a ftrift refemblance to the colour
of the fea $ whence we find fhips called by Homer
xvxiDTs^x^ai, by Ariftophanes xvxyiftfioXai. Several other
colours were alfo made ufe of $ nor were they barely
vamifhed over with them, but very often annealed by
wax melted in the fire, fo that neither the fun, winds,
nor water, were able to deface them. The art of doing
this was called from the wax xn^y^xtpix, from the fire
tfxavs-uM), which is defcribed by Vitruvius, and mention
ed in Ovid.
—   PiSia coloribus uJHs
Cceruleam matrem concava puppis habet.
The painted fhip with melted wax anneal’d
Had Tethys for its deity   
In thefe colours the various forms of gods, animals,
plants, &c. were ufually drawn, which were likewife
often added as ornanaents to other parts of the fhips, as
plainly appears from the ancient monuments prefented
to the world by Bayfius.
The fides of the prow were termed trhgx, or “ wings,”
and 7rx£ix, according to Scheffer, or rather nx^uxi j for
fince the prow is commonly compared to a human face,
it will naturally follow that the fides fhould be called
jcheeks. Thefe are now called bows by our mariners,
z
3. n^yii, u the hind-deck or poop,” fometimes cal- Hift
led Kg*, the “ tail,” becaufe the hindmofl part of the
fliip j it was of a figure more inclining to round than
the prow, the extremity of which was fliarp, that it
might cut the waters *, it w^as alfo built higher than the
prow, and was the place where the pilot fat to fleer ;
the outer-bending part of it wras called ivtmuYy anfwer-
ing to our term quarter.
They had various ornaments of fculpture on the
prow ; as helmets, animals, triumphal wreaths, &c.—
1 he flern was more particularly adorned with wings,
fhields, &c. Sometimes a little mafl wus ere&ed where¬
on to hang ribbands of divers colours, which ferved in-
ftead of a flag to diftinguifh the fhip •, and a weather¬
cock, to fignify the part from whence the wind blew-.
_ On the extremity of the prow wras placed a round
piece of wrood, called the from its bending 5 and
fometimes 6<p6xXfcofy the “ eye” of the fhip, becaufe fix¬
ed in the fore-deck j on this wras infcribed the name of
the fhip, which was ufually taken from the figure paint¬
ed on the flag. Hence comes the frequent mention of
fhips called Pegajiy ScylLr, bulls, rams, tigers, &c.
which the poets took the liberty to reprefent as living
creatures that tranfported their riders from one country
to another.
The whole fabric being completed, it was fortified
with pitch, and fometimes a mixture of rofin, to fecure
the wood from the waters j whence it comes that Ho¬
mer’s fhips are everywhere mentioned with the epithet
of fnXxrixi, or “ black.” Pitch was firil ufed by the
inhabitants of Phaeacia, fince called Corfica j fome¬
times wax was employed for the fame purpofe j whence
Ovid,
Ccerulea ceratas aceipit unda rates.
The azure waves receive the waxed fhips.
After all, the fhip being bedecked with garlands and
flowers, the mariners alfo adorned with crowns, fhe was
launched into the fea with loud acclamations and other
expreflions of joy ; and being purified by a prieft W'ith a
lighted torch, an egg and brimftone, or after fome
other manner, was confecrated to the god whofe image
fhe bore.
The fhips of war of the ancients rvere diftinguifhed
from other kinds of veflels by various turrets and accef-
fions of building, fome to defend their owm foldiers, and
others to annoy the enemy; and from one another, in
latter ages, by feveral degrees or ranks of oars, the moft
ufual number of w-hich was four or five, which appear
not to have been arranged, as fome imagine, on the
fame level in different parts of the fhip ; nor yet, as
others have fuppofed, direftly above one another’s
heads) but their feats being placed one behind another,
afeended gradually, like flairs. Ptolemy Philopater,
urged by a vain-glorious defire of exceeding all the
wTorld befides in naval archite&ure, is faid to have far¬
ther enlarged the number of banks to 40 *, and the fhip
being otherwife in equal proportion, this raifed her to
fuch an enormous bulk, that fire appeared at a diftance
like a floating mountain or ifland j and, upon a nearer
view, like a prodigious caftle on the ocean. She was
280 cubits long, 38 broad, and 48 high (each cubit be¬
ing 1 Englilh foot 54- inches), and carried 400 rowers,
400 failors, and 3000 foldiers. Another w7hich the
fame
Hiftory. fame pnnce made to fail on the Nile, we are told, was
half a ftadium long. Yet thefe were nothing in compa-
rifon of Hiero’s Ihip, built under the diredtion of Ar¬
chimedes ; on the ilrudlure of which Mofchion wrote a
whole volume. There was wood enough employed in
it to make 50 galleys j it had all the variety of apart¬
ments of a palace j fuch as banqueting-rooms, galleries,
gardens, filh-ponds, {tables, mills, baths, and a temple to
Venus. The floors of the middle apartment were all
inlaid, and reprefented in various colours the floxies of
Homer’s Iliad. The ceilings, windows, and all other
parts, were finiflied with wonderful art, and embelliflied
with all kinds of ornaments. In the uppermofl; apart¬
ment there wras a fpacious gymnafium, or place for exer-
cife, and water wras conveyed to the garden by pipes,
fome of hardened clay, and others of lead. The floors
of the temple of Venus wTere inlaid with agates and
other precious ftones 3 the inflde lined with cyprefs
wood j the window’s adorned with ivory paintings and
fmall ftatues. There was likexvife a library. This vef-
fel was adorned on all fldes with fine paintings. It had
20 benches of oars, and was encompafled with an iron
rampart, eight towers, with walls and bulwarks, furnith-
ed with machines of w’ar, particularly one w’hich threw
a ftone of 300 pounds, or a dart 12 cubits long, the
{pace of half a mile, with many other particulars related
by Athenaeus. Caligula likewife built a veffel adorned
with jewels in the poop, wdth fails of many colours, and
furniflied with large porticoes, bagnios, and banquet¬
ing-rooms, befides rows of vines, and fruit-trees of va¬
rious kinds. But thele, and all fuch monftrous fabrics,
ferved only for {how and oftentation, being rendered by
their vaft bulk unwieldy and unfit for fervice. Athe-
nseus informs us, the common names they were known
by, were Cyc/ades, or JEtna, i. e. “ iflands, or moun¬
tains,” to which they feemed nearly equal in bignefs 5
confiding, as fome report, of as many materials as
would have compofed 50 triremes, or {hips of three
banks.
The veflels employed by the northern nations appear
to have been ftill more imperfeft than thofe of the Ro¬
mans 3 for a law was enafted in the reign of the em¬
peror Honorius, 24th September, A. D. 4x8, inflict¬
ing capital punifiimcnt on any w’ho fliould inftruCt the
barbarians in the art of fhip-building 3 a proof at once
of the great eftimation in which this fcience wns then
held, and of the ignorance of the barbarians with re¬
gard to it.
The fleet of Richard I. of England, when he weighed
anchor for the holy war from Meflina, in Sicily, where
he had paffed the winter, A. D. 1190-1, is laid to have
confifted of 150 great fliips and 53 galleys, befides
barks, tartans, &c. What kinds of fliips thefe were is
not mentioned. To the crufades, however pernicious in
other refpeCls, this fcience feems to ow’e fome improve¬
ments ; and to this particular one we are indebted for
Richard’s marine code, commonly called the Laws of
Oleron, from the name of a fmall ifland on the coaft of
1 ranee, where he compofed them, and which mofl: of
the nations in Europe have made the bafis of their ma¬
ritime regulations. Thofe fliips, if they merited the
name of fliips, were probably very fmall, as we find that
fo long after as the time of Edward I. anno 1304, 40
men were deemed fufficient to man the befi: and largefl
veflels in England; and that Edward the Third, anno
V01. XIX. Pali I.
SHIP-BUILDING.
I335» Ordained the mayor and fheriffs of London to
249
Hiftory.
Fwdera,
vol. ii. p.
943-
lb. vol. iv
p. 664.
take up all fliips in their port, and all other ports in
the kingdom, of the burden of 40 tons and upwards,
and to furnilh the fame with armed men and other ne-
ceflanes of W’ar, againft the Scots his enemies, confede¬
rated with certain perfons of foreign nations.” Edward
the Third’s fleet before Calais, anno 1347, confifled of
738 Englifti ihips, carrying 14,956 mariners, being oA
an average but 20 men to each (hip 3 15 {hips and 459
mariners, from Bayonne in Guienne, beifig 30 men to
each fliip 3 7 fliips and 1 84 men from Spain, which is
26 men to each {hip 3 one from Ireland, carrying 2 $
men 3 14 from Flanders, with 133 men, being Icarcely
10 men to each fliip : and one from Guelderland, with
24 mariners. Fifteen of thefe were called the king’s
own (hips, manned with 419 mariners, being fomewhat
under 17 to each fliip.
Hiftorians repreient the veflfels of Venice and Genoa
as the largefl and the heft about this time, but they
were foon exceeded in fize by the Spanifli veflels called
car rich, fome of which carried cannon 3 and thefe again
were exceeded by the veffels built by the northern peo¬
ple, particularly thofe belonging to the Hanfe-towns 
In the 14th century, the Hanfeatics were the fovereigns
of the northern feas, as well without as within the Bal¬
tic 3 and their Ihips were fo large, that foreign princes
often hired them in their w7ars. According to Hak¬
luyt, an Englifli fliip from Newcaftle, of 200 tons bur¬
den, w as feized in the Baltic by thofe of W ifmar and
Roflock, anno 1394 ; and another Englifli veflel of theFcedera,
fame burden was violently feized in the port of Liflbon,™1- vili-
anno 1412. V?2?-
Soon after fliips ef a much larger fize were con- v°f x‘*
flrutted. It is mentioned that a very large fliip wasp,25S‘
built, anno by John Faverner of Hull 3 and in vol. xr.
the year 1455, King Henry IV. at the requeft ofP-364-
Charles king of Sweden, granted a licence for a Swedifli
ftup of the burden of a thoufand tons or under, laden
with merchandize, and having 120 perfons on board, to
come to the ports of England, there to difpofe of their
lading, and to relade back with Englifli merchandize,
paying the ufual cuftoms. The infeription on the torsb
oi William Canning, an eminent merchant, who had
been five times mayor of Briftol, in Ratcliff-church at
Brxftol, anno 1474, mentions his having forfeited the
king’s peace, for which he was condemned to pay 300
merks 3 in lieu of which fum, King Edward IV. took
of him 2470 tons of {hipping, amongft which there
was one fliip of 900 tons burden, another of 500 tons
and one of 400 tons, the reft being fmaller.
In the year 1506, King James IV. of Scotland built
the largeft fliip which had hitherto been feen, but which
was loft in her way to France in the year 1512, owing
probably to a defeftive conftrudlion, and the unlkilful-
nefs of the crew in managing fo large a fliip. About
this time a very large fliip was hkewile built in France.
In the fleet fitted out by Henry VIII. anno 1512, there
was one fliip, the Regent, of 1000 tons burden, one of
500, and three of 400 each. A fliip flill larger than
the Regent was built foon after, called Henri Grace
Dieu! In the year 1522 the firft voyage round the
globe was finiflied.
The Englifli naval hiftorians think that fliips carried
cannon on their upper decks only, and had no gun.
ports before the year 1545 : and it is certain that many
n of,
SHIP-BUILDING.
Monfon's
Naval
Trails,
p, 224.
3
Ships of
the com¬
mon form
found de-
leffive,
4
and im¬
provements
propofed.
5
.Double
fhips in¬
troduced
Ly Sir Wil¬
liam Petty,
European
Magazine
for Aupuft
1783.
i
%
of the largeft ftiips in former times were fitted out from
harbours, where Ihips of a moderate fize now would
not have water enough to float them. In 1575 t^e
whole of the royal navy did not exceed 24 {hips, and
the number of merchant-fhips belonging to England
amounted to no more than 135 veffels above 100 tons,
and 656 between 40 and 100 tons. At Queen Eliza¬
beth’s death, anno 1603, there were not above lour
merchant-lhips in England ol 4®^ burden each.——
The largefl of Queen Elizabeth’s {hips of war was 1000
tons burden, carrying but 340 men, and 40 guns, and
the fmalleft 600 tons, carrying 150 men and 30 guns.
Smaller veffels were occafionally hired by her from pri¬
vate owners.
In the memorable fea-fight of Eepanto between the
Turks and Chriftians, anno 1571, no veffels were em¬
ployed but galleys j and it would appear from the car-
cafes of fome of them, which are ftnl prelerved in the
arfenal at Venice, that even thefe were not fo large or
fo well conftrufted as thofe of our times, ihe Invin¬
cible Armada, as Spaniih vanity ftyled it, once the
terror and admiration of nations, in the pompous and
exaggerated deferiptions of which the Spanifn authors
of thofe times dwelt with lo much apparent plealure,
confifted of 130 {hips, near 100 of which were the
ilatelieft that had yet been feen on the ocean. The kr-
geft of thefe, however, would be no more than a third
rate veffel in our navy, and they were lo ill comlrucled,
that they would neither move eafily, fail near the wind,
nor be properly worked in tempeifuous w'eather. f he
whole of the naval force collefted by Queen Elizabeth
to oppofe this formidable fleet, including hired veffels,
tenders, ftore-fliips, &c. amounted to no more than
143.
Ship-building began now to make a confiderable pro-
ofefs in Britain, Both war and trade required an in-
creafe of {flipping •, fo that, in the year 1670, the an¬
nual charge of the navy was reported to be 300,000!. }
and in 1678 the navy confided of 83 fliips, of which
^8 were of the line. At this time the exports amount¬
ed to ten millions per annum ■, and the balance of trade
was two millions. In 1689 there were 173 {hips, great
and final 1, in the royal navyr, and it has been conflant-
ly increafing •, fo that in 1761 the fhips in tiie navy
amounted to 372, °f wnich 129 were of the line j and
in the beginning of the year 1795* ^iie amount
was above 430.
As {hips of the common conftru61ion are found to
be very defeaive in many particulars, various methods
have therefore from time to time been propofed to re¬
move fome of the bad qualities they poflefled. As. it
would be an endlefs talk to enumerate the diffeient in¬
ventions for this purpofe, a few of them only will now
be mentioned.
In 1663 Sir William Petty conftrufted a double {hip,
or rather a fingle {hip with a double bottom, wdiich was
found to fail confiderably fa,fter than any of the fliips
with which it had an opportunity of being tried. Her Hiftory.
firft voyage was from Dublin to Holyhead } and in her bT—
return “ {he turned into that narrow harbour againfi:
wind and tide, among rocks and {hips, with fiich dexte¬
rity as many ancient feamen confeffed they had never
feen the like.” This veffel with 70 more wTas loft in a
dreadful tempeft.
This fubjeft rvas again revived by Mr Gordon, in his^ a6 a;tl
Principles of Naval Architecture, printed at Aberdeenpr01X)[^
anno 1784 j where, having delivered his fentiments on by Mr
the conftrudtion of large mafts, he fays: “ Ihefe ex-Gordon,
periments likewife point out to us methods by which P' 54*
two veffels may be laterally connefted together, though
at a confiderable diftance from each other, in a manner
fufficiently ftrong, with very little increate of weight or
expence of materials, and without expofing much fur-
face to the adtion or influence oi the wdnd or the wraves,
or obftrufting their motion in any conliderable degree,
and conlequently without being much oppoled by them
on that account under any circumftances j and if veffels
are judicioufly conftru&ed with a view to fuch a junc¬
tion, it would be no eafy matter to enumerate all the
advantages that may be obtained by this means.” Pie
then enumerates the advantages that double veffels ^
would have over thole of the common conftruftion. iateiy
Soon after double {hips W'ere a&ually built by Mr Mil-conftrufted
ler of Dalfwinton. Mr Mli"
Another plan was propofed by Mr Gordon to makeup
a fliip fail faft, draw little water, and to keep a good 0yNaval
wind. For this purpofe, “ the bottom (he fays) ftiould Architec-
be formed quite flat, and the fides made to rife perpem ture,p. 7<J.
dicular from it, without any curvature •, which wTould Qra j5t 0f
not only render her more fteady, as being more oppofed water pro_
to the water in rolling, but likewife more convenient forpofed to be
ftowage, &c. while the fimplicity of the form woulddiminiflied
contribute greatly to the eafe and expedition with ve°
which Hie might be fabricated. Though diminifliing^vj1^ ^
the draught of water is, cccteris paribus, undoubtedly ’
the moft effectual method of augmenting the velocity Inccrfve.
with which veffels go before the wind; yet, as it pro-mercy of
portionally diminiflies their hold of the water, it ren-this plan,
ders them extremely liable to be driven to leeward, an^ ^ etr,g/!;eq
altogether incapable of keeping a good wind. 'lhisb^aiig_
defeft may, however, be remedied, in a fimple and meriting
fettual manner, by proportionally augmenting the depth the depth
of keel, or, as ft/large a keel would be inconvenient on0* A£ keel,
many accounts, proportionally increafing their number ;or ^
as, in place of adding a keel eight feet deep to a veffel creafing
drawing fix feet water, to affix to different parts of her the nura-
flat bottom, which would be well adapted for receivingber of
them, fix different keels of two feet deep each at equal
diflances from each other, with proper intervals between;
which will be found equally effetfual for preventing
thefe pernicious effedls. Four fuch, indeed, would have
anfwered the purpofe as well as the eight ieet keel, v. eie
it not for the fuperior preffure or refiftance of the lower
"'ater (A)‘ Thus
GO This is frequently repeated on the authority of Mr Gordon and others. Theory fays otherwife ; and the
experiments of Sir Ifaac Newton ffiow in the moft unexceptionable manner, that the refiftance of a ball descending
through the water is the fame at ail depths; nay, the heaping up of the water on the bow occafiomng a hydrofta-
tical preffure in addition to the real refiftance, will make the whole oppofition to an equal furface, but oi grea.e,
horizontal dimenfions, greater, becaufe it bears a greater proportion to the refiftance.
ffiftory.
12
The plan
farther im-
pioved by
the adop¬
tion of Ai¬
ding keels.
x*. .
*The utility
of Aiding
keels pro¬
ved by ex¬
periment.
T4
And adlu-
ally put in
pradlice
upon a
larger fcale
Tims then it appears, that a vefiel drawing eight feet
water only, keels and all, may be made to keep as good
a wind, or be as little liable to be driven to leeward, as
the lharpeft built veffel of the fame length drawing 14,
nay 20 or upwards, if a few inore keels are added, at
the fame time that fhe would be little more refilled in
moving in the line of the keels than a veffel drawing
fix feet water only. Thefe keels, befides, would
flrengthen the veffel confiderably, would render her
more Heady, and lefs liable to be overfet, and thereby
enable her to carry more fail ; and Mr Gordon then
enumerates the feveral advantages that a Ihip of this
conftrudlion will poffefs.
This plan has been pwt into execution by Cap¬
tain Schank, with this difference only, that inftead of
the keels being fixed as propofed by Mr Gordon, Cap¬
tain Schank conltrufled them fo as to Hide down to a
cert -in depth below the bottom, or to be drawn up
within the Ihip as occafion might require.
Captain Schank having communicated his plans to
the Navy Boaid, two veffels were in confequence or¬
dered to be built of 13 tons each, and fimilar in dimen-
fions, one on the old conltruftion, and the other flat-
bottomed, with Hiding keels. In 1790 a compara¬
tive trial in prefence of the commiflioners of the navy
was made on the river Thames, each having the fame
quantity of fail j and although the veffel on the old
conftruftion had leeboards, a greater quantity of bal-
laft, and two Thames pilots aboard, yet Captain
Schank’s veffel with three Hiding keels beat the other
veffel, to the aftonifhment of all prefent, one half of the
whole diftance failed j and no doubt flie would have
beat her much more had (he been furnilhed with a
Thames pilot.
This trial gave fo much fatisfaflion, that a king’s
cutter of 120 tons was immediately ordered to be built
on the fame conftruftion, and Captain Schank -was re-
quefted to fuperintend its building. This veffel was
launched at Plymouth in 1791, and named the Trial.
•The length of this veffel is 66 feet, breadth 21 feet,
and depth of the hold feven feet : her bottom is quite
flat, and draws only fix feet water, with all her guns,
flores, &c. whereas all other veffels of her tonnage on
the old conftrudlion draw 14 feet 5 fo that Ore can go
with fafety into almoft any harbour or creek. She has
three Hiding keels inclofed in a cafe or well; they are
each 14 feet in length ; the fore and the after keels are
three feet broad each, and the middle keel is fix feet
broad. The keeis are moveable by means of a winch,
and may be let down feven feet below the real keel;
and they work equally well in a ftorm as in {fill wa¬
ter. Her hold is divided into feveral compartments, all
water-tight, and fo contrived, that flnould even a plank
or two ftart at fea in different parts of the veffel, (lie
may be navigated with the greatefl fecunty to any
place. If fine (hould be driven on fliore in a gale of
wind, (he will not foon become a wreck, as her keels
will be driv n up into their cafes, and the (hip being
flat-bottomed, will not be eafily overfet; and being
able to go into fuch (hallow water, the crew may all be
eafily faved. By means of her (liding keel (he is kept
fteady in the greatefl: gale ; (he is quite eafy in a great
fea, does not drain in the lead, and never takes in wa¬
ter on her deck 5 and when at anchor, (lie rides more
upright and even than any other (hip can do : (lie faiis
SHIP-BUILDING.
very fad either before or upon a wind; no veffel (he
has ever been in company with, of' equal fize, has been
able, upon many trials, to beat her in failing j and yet
her fails feem too fmall.
It has aifo been propofed to condrufl veffels of other
materials than wood ; and a veffel was built whofe bot¬
tom, indead of being plank, was copper.
Book I. Containing the Method of Delineating the
feveral Seffiions of a Ship.
Chap. I. Of the Properties of Ships.
rS
A ship ought to be condrufted fo as to anfwer the General
particular purpofe for which (he is intended. It would principle:
be an eafy matter to determine the form of a (hip in-
tended to fail by means of oars ; but, when fails are
ufed, a (hip is then adted upon by two elements, the
wind and water: and therefore it is much more diffi¬
cult than is commonly imagined to afeertain the form of
a diip fo as to anfwer in an unfavourable as well as a fa¬
vourable wind j the diip at the fame time having a car¬
go of a certain weight and magnitude. jr:
Every (hip ought to fail well, but particularly when Properties
the wind is upon the beam j for this purpofe a confider-that a Aiip
able length in proportion to the breadth is neceffary,mu^ Po5*
and the plane of refidance fhould be the lead poffible.
The main frame ffiould alfo be placed in a proper fitua-
tion 5 but according to the experiments of Mr Chap¬
man its plane is variable with the velocity of the * Tmite de
diip: the mean place of the main frame has, however,
been generally edimated to be about one-twelfth of the yciijpaux,
length of the keel before the middle. Without a fuf-p. 40.
ficient degree of dability a (hip will not be able to car¬
ry a prefs of fail : a great breadth in proportion to the
length and low upper-works will augment the dability.
The following particulars being attended to, the above
property will be gained, and the (hip will alfo deer
well. The wing tranfom fhould be carried pretty high 5
the faflrion-pieces well formed, and not full below the
load water-line : the lower part of the dem to be a por¬
tion of a circle, and to have a confiderable rake : the
dernpod to be nearly perpendicular to the keel $ and all
the upper wrorks kept as low as poffible.
Many (hips from condru£Hon are liable to make much To make
leeway. This may in a great meafure be avoided by gi- a keep
ving the (hip a long keel, little breadth, and a confider-
able depth in the hold : whence the bow will meet with " *
little refidance in comparifon to the fide, and therefore
the drip will not fall much to the leeward. l3
Another very great retardation to the velocity of a and to fail
drip is her pitching. The principal remedy for this is toPnoothly
increafe the length of the keel and floor, to diminifh 'ykhoixt
the rifing afore and abaft, and to conftruft the hull in j^j1
fuch a manner that the contents of the fore-body
may be duly proportioned to the contents of the after-
body. _ _ rp
In a (hip of war the lower tier of guns ought to bei Aiipsof
of a fufficient height above the water, otherwife it willwarthe
be impofiible to work the lee-guns when it blows hard.lower ^eck
'This property will be obtained by giving her a longplfp8
floor-timber, little rifing, a full midffiip frame, light up-j^h above
per works, and the wing tranfom not too high : And the water,
in every fnip the extreme breadth ought always to be
higher afore and abaft than at midfliips.
I i 2
A
2.?2 SHIP-BUILDING.
A merchant fliip, befides being a faft failer, ought
to carry a confiderablc cargo :n proportion to its
length, to fail with little ballaft, and to be navigated
with few hands.
That a fliip may take in a confiderable cargo, it
ftiouid nave a great breadth and depth in proportion to
to take in alengtli, a full bottom, and a long and flat floor,
great cargo, But a Ihip of this conflruftion will neither fail fafl, nor
22 carry much fail.
and to have If a hup be filled out much towards the line of float-
ftabihty, ation, together with low upper works, (he will require
little ballaft : and that (hip which is ftiff from conftruc-
tion is much better adapted for failing faft than one
which, in order to carry the fame quantity of canvas,
is obliged to be loaded with a much greater tveigbt :
for the refiftance is as the quantity of water to be re¬
moved, or nearly as the area of a tranfverfe fedlion of
the immerfed part of the body at the midlhip frame;
and a body that is broad and (hallow is much differ
than one of the fame capacity that is narrow and deep.
Principles “ Xta advantages (fays Mr Gordon) are numerous,
°Architec- ’raPorl-ant, and obvious. For it is evident, that by en-
r»re,p. ico.largjng> perhaps doubling, the breadth of veffels, and
forming their bottoms flat and w^ell furniflied wfith
Advantages kpels, they muft, in the JlrJl place, become much ftea-
of a fliip of dier, roll little, if any, and be enabled to carry greatly
a fmall / more fail, and that in a better direction, at the fame
of time that they would be in no danger of being dHinaft-
ed or overfet, unlefs the mafts were of a moil extraor¬
dinary height indeed. Secondly, They would have little
or no occafion for ballaft, and if any was ufed, could
incur Ids danger from its ftiifting. Thirdly, That there
would be much more room upon deck, as well as ac¬
commodation below; the breadth being fo much in-
creafed without any diminution of the height above the
load-water line. Fourthly, That they would deviate
much lefs from the intended courfe, and penetrate the
water much eafier in the proper direftion : for doubling
the breadth, without any increafe of weight, w’ould di-
minifli the depth or draught of w'ater erne half*, and
though the extent of the direftly oppofing furface
would be the fame as before, yet the veffel in moving
would meet with half the former refiftance only ; for fo
great is the difference between the preffure, force, or
reaftion, of the upper and the under water. Fifthly,
That they would by this means be adapted for yling
unfupported in docks and harbours w*hen dry, be ren¬
dered capable of being navigated in (hallow water, and
of being benefited by all the advantages attending that
very important circutnftance ; and it is particularly to
be obferved, that making veffels which may be naviga¬
ted in (hallow water, may, in many refpefts, juftly be
regarded as a matter ©f equal importance with increa-
fing the number of harbours, and improving them, as ha¬
ving identically the fame effedls with regard to naviga¬
tion j at the fame time, that the benefits which would
refult from fuch circumftances are obtained by this means
without either expence, trouble, or inconvenience: be¬
fides, it would not only enable veffels to enter many ri¬
vers, bays, and creeks, formerly inacceftible to (hips of
burden, but to proceed to fuch places as are moft
landlocked, where they can lie or ride moft fecvwe,
and with lead expence of men and ground tackle. As
Ihips of war would carry their guns well by being fo
fteady, there could be but little occafion for a high Properties
topfide, or much height of hull above water; and as i Ships,
little or no bailaft would be required, there would be —v—
no neceflity, as in other veffels, for increafing their
weight on that account, and thereby prefling them
deeper into the water. Thefe are very important cir¬
cumftances, and would contribute much to improve the
failing of luch veffels.” From whence it appears, that
there would be united, what has hitherto been deemed irre-
concileable,the greateft poflible (lability, which is nearly
as the area of a tranverfe feftion of the immerfed part of
the body at the midlhip frame : and a body that is broad
and (hallow is much differ than one of the fame capaci¬
ty that is narrow and deep. A (hip of this conftru&ion
may take in a confiderable cargo in proportion to her
fize \ but if deeply loaded will not fail faft, for then the
area of a ftftion of the immerfed part at the midlhip
frame will be very confiderable ; and as the fails of fuch
a (hip muft neceffarily be large, more hands will there¬
fore be required.
The lefs the breadth of a drip, the fewer hands will be and tefbe
neceffary to work her j as in that cafe the quantity of fail navigated
wull be lefs, and the anchors alfo of lefs weight. We (hall w‘t^ iew
gain much (fays M. Bouguer) by making the extreme •
breadth, no more than the fifth or fixth part of theNavire.
length, if, at the fame time, we diminilh the depth pro¬
portionally } and Hkcwife this moft furprifing circum-
llance, that by diminiftiing thefe two dimenfions, or by
increafing the length, a (hip may be made to go fome-
times as fall: as the wind.
In order to obtain the preceding properties, very op-imp^ble
pofite rules muft be followed *, and hence it appears to to unite all
be impoflible ta conftrudl a drip fo as to be poffeffed ©ftiie q11®1'-
them all. The body, however, muft be fo formed, that l'es niflthe
as many of thefe properties may be retained as poffible,famC U8‘
always obferving to give the preference to thofe which
are moft required. If it is known what particular trade
the (hip is to be employed in, thofe qualities are then
principally to be adhered to which are mod effentially
neceffary for that employment.
It may eafily be demonftrated that fmall (hips will Small drips
not have the fame advantages as large ones of a (imilar interior to
form, wflien employed in the fame trade : for a large i^omt of
drip will not only fail fafter than a fmali one of a fimi-failing,
lar form, but will alfo require fewer hands to work her.
Hence, in order that a fmall (hip may poffefs the fame
advantages as a large one, the correfponding dimenfions
will not be proportional to each other. The reader will
fee in Chapman’s ArchiteBura Navalis Mercatoria am¬
ple tables of the feveral dimenfions of (hips, of different
claffes and fizes, deduced from theory combined with
experiment. Tables of the dimenfions of the princi¬
pal (hips of the Britifh navy, and of other (hips, are
contained in the Ship-builder’s Repofitory, and in Mur¬
ray’s Treatife on Ship-building.
Chap. II. Of the different Plans of a Ship,
When it is propofed to build a (hip, the propor¬
tional fize of every part of her is to be laid down j from
whence the form and dimenfions of the timbers, and of
every particular piece of wood that enters into the con-
ftruftion, is to be found. As a (hip has length, breadth,
and depth, three different plans at leaft arc neceffary to
exhibit
SHIP-BUILDING,
255
28
Half
breadth
plan or
horizon¬
tal plane.
29
Body plan,
or projec¬
tion.
3° .
The various
lines laid
down on
Different exhibit the form of the feveral parts of a ihip : thefe are
Fians of a are ufuaUy denominated iht jheer plan, the half breadth
t J ^ . and body plans.
i*j The jheer plan or draught, otherwife called the plan
Sheer of elevation, is that feftion of the (hip which is made
draught, or by a vertical plane palling through the keel. Upon
«. evation. pjan are down the length of the keel j the
height and rake of the llem and {tempo!! ; the fkuation
and height of the midihip and other frames ; the place
of the malts and channels j the projection of the head
and quarter gallery, and their appendages; and in a {hip
of war the poiition and dimenfions of the gun-ports. Se¬
veral imaginary lines, namely, the upper and lower
height of breadth lines, water lines, &c. are alfo drawn
in this plane.
The half breadth or, foor plan, or, as it is frequently
called the horizontal plane, contains the feveral half¬
breadths of every frame of timbers at different heights *,
ribbands, water lines, &c. are alfo deferibed on this
plane.
'Ihe body plan, or plane of projeBion, is a feftion of
the {hip at the midfhip frame or broadert place, perpen¬
dicular to the two former. The feveral breadths, and the
particular form of every frame of timbers, are deferibed
on this plane. As the two fides of a {hip are fimilar to
each other, it is therefore unnecerTary to lay down both ;
hence the frames contained between the main frame and
the idem are deferibed on one fide of the middle line,
commonly on the right hand fide, and the after frames
are deferibed on the other fide of that line.
Several lines are deferibed on thefe planes, in order
the more readily to a!fift in the formation of the timbers j
thefe plans Pr*nc’Pa^ which are the following :
The top-timber line, is a curve limiting the height of
the {hip at each timber.
The top-timber half breadth line, is a feclion of the fliip
at the height of the top-timber line, perpendicular to the
plane of elevation.
The height of breadth lines, are two lines named the
vpper and lower heights of breadth. Thefe lines are
deferibed on the plane of elevation to determine the
height of the broadeft part of the {hip at each timber 3
and being deferibed in the body plan, limit the height
and breadth of each frame at its broadeft part.
Main half breadth, is a feClion of the fhip at the
broadeft part, perpendicular to the ftieer plan, and re-
prefents the greateft breadth at the outfide of every
timber.
Water lines, are lines fuppofed to be deferibed on the
bottom of a {hip when afloat by the furface of water;
and the uppermoft of thefe lines, or that deferibed by
the water on the fhip’s bottom when fufficiently load¬
ed, is called the load water line. According as the
{hip is lightened, {he will rife higher out of the water ;
and hence new wTater lines will be formed. If ftie be
lightened in fuch a manner that the keel may preferve
the fame inclination to the furface of the water, thefe
lines will be parallel to each other 3 and if they are pa¬
rallel to the keel, they will be reprefented by ftraight
lines parallel to each other in the body plan 3 otherwife
by curves. In the half breadth plan, thefe lines are
curves limiting the half breadth of the {hip at the height
of the correfponding lines in the ftieer plan. In or¬
der to diftinguifh thefe lines, they are ufually drawn in
gvecn,
Different
Plans of a
Ship.
Ribband lines, are curves on a fhip’s bottom by the in-
terfedlion of a plane inclined to the plane of elevation 3
and are denominated diagonal or horizontal, according ,
as they are meafured upon the diagonal, or in a direc¬
tion perpendicular to the plane of elevation. Both
thefe anlwer to the fame curve on the ftiip's bottom,
but give very different curves when deferibed on the
half breadth plan.
Frames, are circular pieces of timber bolted toge-Frames,
ther, and raifed upon the keel at certain diftances, andc°mPofec*
to which the planks are faftened. A frame is compofed
of one floor-timber, two or three buttocks, and a top- futtocks,
timber on each fide : which being united together, form andtoptim-
a circular inclofure, and that which inclofes the greateft her.
fpace is called the tnidjhip or main frame. The arms
of the floor-timber of this frame form a very obtufe an¬
gle 3 but in the other frames this angle deereafes with
the diftance of the frame from midftiips. Thofe floor-
timbers which form very acute angles are called crutches.
The length of the midfhip floor-timber is in general
about half the length of the main frame. 2
A frame of timbers is commonjy formed by arches of Sweeps of
circles called fweeps. There are generally five fweeps :t'^ 1se^ra*
ift, The floor fweep ; which is limited by a line in the a
body plan perpendicular to the plane of elevation, a
little above the keel 3 and the height of this line above
the keel at the midihip frame is called the dead riflng.
The upper part of this arch forms the head of the floor
timber. 2d, The lower breadth fweep ; the centre of
which is in the line reprefenting the lower height of
breadth. 3d, The reconciling fweep. This fweep joins
the two former, without interfering either 3 and makes
a fair curve from the lower height of breadth to the .
riling line. If a ftraight line is drawn from the upper
edge of the keel to touch the back of the floor fweep,
the form of the midftiip frame below the lower height
of breadth will be obtained. 4th, The upper breadth
fweep ; the centre of which is in the line reprefenting
the upper height of breadth of the timber. This fweep
deferibed upwards forms the lower part of the top tim¬
ber. 5th, The top timber fweep is that which forms the
hollow of the top timber. This hollow is, however, very
often formed by a mould, fo placed as to touch the up¬
per breadth fweep, and pafs through the point limiting
the half breadth of the top timber.
The main frame, or as it is ufually called dead-flat, ^
denoted by the charafler 0. The timbers before dead-frames
flat are marked A, B, C, &c. in order 3 and thofe abaft
dead-flat by the figures 1, 2, 3, &c. The timbers ad¬
jacent to dead-flat, and of the fame dimenfions nearly,
are diftinguilhed by the characters (A), (B), &c. and
(1), (2), &c. That part of the {hip abaft the main
frame is called the after body ; and that before it the
fore body.
All timbers are perpendicular to the half breadth plaf,
Thofe timbers whofe planes are perpendicular to the fl\eer
plan, are called fquare timbers ; and thofe whofe planes
are inclined to it are called canted timbers.
The rifng line, is a curve drawn in the fheer plan, at
the heights of the centres of the floor Iweeps in the
body plan. As, however, this line, if drawn in this •
manner, would extend beyond the upper line of the
figure, it is therefore ufually fo drawn that its lower part
may touch the upper edge of the keel. This is per¬
formed by taking the heights, of each of the centres in
the
^54 S H I P - B U
Plans'o'fa t^ie 'body p"la,1» from t5le height of the centre of the
Sh p. a ^weeP dead-flat, and fetting them off on the corre-
-y— -r fponding timbers in the flieer plan from the upper edge
of the keel.
Ha/f breadth of the rifing, is a curve in the floor plan,
which limits the diflances of the centres of the floor
fweeps from the middle line of the body plan.
'Ihe rifng of the floor, is a curve drawn in the fheer
plan, at the height of the ends of the floor timbers. It
is limited at the main frame or dead flat by the dead
rifing, and in flat flnps is nearly parallel to the keel for
fome timbers afore and abaft the midfliip frame ; for
which reafon thefe timbers are called flats : but in ftiarp
fhips it rifes gradually from the main frame, and ends on
the ftem and poft.
Cutting-down line, is a curve drawn on the plane of
elevation. It limits the depth of every floor timber at
the middle line, and alfo the height of the upper part of
the dead wTood afore and abaft.
Timber and room, or room and fpace, is the diftance
between the moulding edges of two timbers, which muff
always contain the breadth of two timbers and an inter¬
val of about two or three inches between them. In
forming the timbers, one mould ferves for two, the fore-
fide of the one being fuppofed to unite with the aftfide
of the other, and fo make only one line, which is called
,, the joint of the timbers.
Principal In order to illuffrate the above, and to explain more
pieces that particularly the principal pieces that compofe a fliip, it
compote a VVJH be neceflaiy to give a defeription of them. Thefe
Plate pieces are for the mofl: part reprefented according to the
cccdxsxiv. order of their difpofition in fig. x.
Fig. r. A, Reprefents the pieces of the keel to be fecurely
bolted together and clinched.
B, the llernpoft, which is tenanted into the keel, and
connected to it by the knee G.
E, The back of the poll, which is alfo tenanted into
the keel, and fecurely bolted to the poll *, the intention
of it is to give fufficient breadth to the port, which fel-
dom can be got broad enough in one piece. C is the
falfe poll, which is fayed (b) to the fore part of the
fternpoft.
C, The ftem, in two pieces, to be fcarfed together.
The ftem is joined to the fore foot, which makes a part
of both.
H, The apron, in two pieces, to be fcarfed together,
and fayed on the infide of the ftem, to fupport the fcarf
thereof j and therefore the fcarf of the apron muft be at
fome diftance from that of the ftem.
I, The ftemfon, in two pieces, to fupport the fcarf
of the apron.
D, The beams which fupport the decks •, and F the
knees by which the beams are faftened to the Aides of
the fliip.
K, The wing tranfom : it is fayed acrofs the ftern¬
poft, and bolted to the head of it, and its extremities
are faftened to the fafhion pieces. L, Is the deck tran¬
fom, parallel to the wing tranfom. M, N, Two of the
lower tranfoms : thefe are faftened to the fternpoft and
falhion pieces in the fame manner as the wing tranfom.
Q, The knee which faftens the tranfom to the (hip’s
I L D I N G.
fide. And, O, The fafhion piece, of which there is Different
one on each fide. The keel of the faftiion piece is con- Plans of a
nefled with the dead-wood, and the head is faftened to , ^
the wing tranfom.
R, S, Breaft-hooks : thefe are fayed in the infide to
the ftem, and to the bow on each fide of it, to which
they are faftened with proper bolts. There are gene¬
rally four or five in the hold, in the form of that marked
R, and one in the form of that marked S, into which the
lower deck planks are rabbeted : There is alfo one im¬
mediately under the haufe holes, and another under the
fecond deck.
T, The rudder, which is joined to the fternpoft by
the rudder irons, upon which it turns round in the
googings, faftened to the fternpoft for that purpofe.
There is a mortife cut in the head of the rudder, into
which a long bar is fitted called the tiller, and by which
the rudder is turned.
U, A floor timber : it is laid acrofs the keel, to
which it it faftened by a bolt through the middle,
V, V, V, V, The lower, the fecond, third, and fourth
futtocks. W, W, The top timbers. Thefe reprefent
the length and fcarf of the feveral timbers in the mid-
ftiip frame.
X, The pieces wdrich compofe the kelfon. They
are fcarfed together in the fame mariner as the keel, and
placed over the middle of the floor timbers, being (cored
about an inch and a half down upon each fide of them,
as reprefented in the figure.
Y, The feveral pieces of the knee of the head ; the
lowrer part of wdrich is fayed to the ftem, and its keel is
fcarfed to the head of the forefoot. It is faftened to
the bow by two knees, called cheeks, in the form of that
reprefented by Z •, and to the ftem, by a knee called a
flandard, in the form of that marked ®.
a, The cathead, of which there is one on each fide
of the bow, projefting fo far as to keep the anchor clear
of the drip when it is hove up.
b, The bits, to which the cable is faftened when the
(hip is at anchor.
d. The fide counter-timbers, which terminate the (hip
abaft within the quarter gallery.
e, e, Two pieces of dead wood, one afore and the
other abaft, fayed on the keel.
Fig. 2. is a perfpe&ive reprefentation of a (hip fra- pig. 2>
med and ready for the planking j in which A, A is the
keel ; B, the fternpoft ; C, the ftem •, K, L, M, the
tranfoms 5 F, F, F, F, F, F, the ribbands.
Chap. III. Containing Preliminary Problems, &c.
The general dimenfions of a (hip are the length,
breadth, and depth.
To afeertain thofe dimenfions that will bed anfwer ^
the intended purpofe is, no doubt, a problem of confi-tlona|
derable difficulty 5 and, from theory, it may be drown menfions
that there are no determinate proportions fubfifting be- a ft11?
tween the length, breadth, and depth, by which thefe
dimenfions may be fettled*, yet, by combining theory ferrf(j fr*oin
and praflice, the proportional dimenfions may be ap-theory
proximated to pretty nearly. combined
_^s with prac¬
tice ;
(b) 'Yofay, is to join two pieces of timber clofe together.
4
S H I P - B U I L D I N G.
Preliminary As fiiips are conftru&ed for a variety of different
^ Problem*, p^rpofes, their principal dimenfions muff therefore be
i ' altered accordingly, in order to adapt them as nearly as
poflible to the propoled intention ; but lince there is
no fixed ixandard whereby to regulate thefe dimenfions,
the methods therefore introduced are numerous, and in
37 a great meaiure depend upon cultom and fancy,
and alib With regard, however, to the proportional dimen-
cirdet!ie ^ons» they perhaps may be inferred from the circle.
Thus, if the extreme breadth be made equal to the dia¬
meter, the length at the load water line, or the difiance
between the rabbets of the item and poll at that place,
may be made equal to the circumference of the fame
circle j and the depth of the hold equal to the radius,
the upper works being continued upwards according to
circumftances. A (hip formed from thefe dimenfions,
with a bottom more or lefs full according as may be
judged neceffary, will no doubt anfwer the propofed in¬
tention. Neverthelefs, one or other of thefe dimenfions
may be varied in order to gain fome effential property,
which the trade that the veffel is intended for may re¬
quire.
* Practical The following hints are given by Mr Hutchinfon *
Seaman- towards fixing rules for the belt conftrudKon of (hips
Jhip, page bottoms.
1. “ I would recommend (fays he), to prevent (hips
f See Book bottoms from hogging f upwards amidflfip, to have the
ii. chap. 2. fore and after part of their keels deep enough, that the
upper part may be made to admit a rabbet for the gar-
board tlreak, that the main body and bearing part of
the fhips bottoms may be made to form an arch down¬
wards in their length, fuppofe with the fame fireer as
their bends, at the rate of about 2 inches for every 30
feet of the extreme length of the keel towards the mid-
ftiip or main frame, which may be reckoned the crown
of the arch ; and the lower part of the keel to be made
ftraight, but kid upon blocks fo that it may form a re¬
gular convex curve downwards at the rate of an inch
for every 30 feet of the extreme length of the keel, the
lowefi: part exaftly under the main frame j which curve,
I reckon, is only a fufficient allowance for the keel to
become ftraight below, after they are launched afloat,
by the preffure of the water upward againft their floors
amidlhip, which caufes their tendency to hog. And
certainly a ftraight keel is a great advantage in failing,
as well as to fupport them when laid upon level ground
or on ftraight blocks in a repairing dock, without taking
damage.
2. “ As fquare fterned {hips, from experience, are
found to anfwer all trades and purpofes better than
round or pink fterned (hips, I would recommend the
fore part of the fternpoft, on account of drawing the
water lines in the draught, only to have a few inches
rake, that the after part may ftand quite upright per¬
pendicular to the keel : and for the rake of the ftem I
would propofe the rabbet for the budding ends for the
entrance, and bows from the keel upwards, to form the
fame curve as the water line from the ftem at the har-
pin towards the main breadth, and the bows at the har-
pin to be formed by a fweep of a circle of half the three-
fourths of the main breadth j and the main tranfom to
be three-fourths of the main-breadth ; and the buttocks,
at the load or failing mark afi, to be formed, in the fame
manner as the bows at the harpin, with a fweep of a
circle of half the three fourths of the main breadth, to
255
extend juft as far from the ftem and ftern poft as to ad- Preliminary
mit a regular convex curve to the main frame, and from ProbIems-
thefe down to the keel to form regular convex water'- v f
lines, without any of thofe unnatural, hollow, concave
ones, either in the entrance or run 5 which rules, in my
opinion, will agree with the main body of the fhip,
w'hetber (he is defigned to be built full for burden or
(harp below for failing.
3. “ This rule for raking the ftem will admit all the
W'ater-lines in the (hip’s entrance to form convex curves
all the way from the ftem to the midlhip or main frame,
which anfwers much better for failing as well as mak¬
ing a (hip more eafy and lively in bad weather. And
the bowrs ftiould flange off, rounding in a circular form
from the bends up to the gunwale, in order to meet the
main breadth the fooner, with a fweep of half the main
breadth at the gunwale amidfhips j which will not only
prevent them greatly from being plunged under water
in bad weather, but fpread the (landing fore-rigging the
more, to fupport thefe material mafts and fails forward
to much greater advantage than in thofe over (harp
bowed (hips, as has been mentioned. And as the fail¬
ing trim of (hips in general is more or lefs by the ftern,
this makes the water lines of the entrance in proportion
the (harper to divide the particles of water the eafier,
fo that the (hip may prefs through it with the lead re¬
finance.
4. “ The run ought to be formed (horter or longer,
fuller or (harper, in proportion to the entrance and main
body, as the (hip is defigned for burden or failing fall.
The convex curves of the water lines fhould leffen gra¬
dually from the load or failing mark aft, as has been
mentioned, downwards, till a fair ftraight taper is form¬
ed from the after part of the floor to the fternpoft be¬
low, without any concavity in the water lines; which
will not only add buoyancy and burden to the after
body and run of the fhip, but, in my opinion, will help
both her failing and (leering motions j for the preffure
of the water, as it clofes and rifes upon it to come to its
level again, and fill up that hollow which is made by
the fore and main body being preffed forward with fail,
will impinge, and aft with more power to help the drip
forward in her progreftive motion, than upon thofe un¬
natural concave runs, which have fo much more flat
dead wood, that muft, in proportion, be a hinderance
to the ftern being turned fo eafily by the power of the
helm to (leer the (hip to the greateft advantage.”
Many and various are the methods which are employ¬
ed to deferibe the feveral parts of a (hip. In the follow¬
ing problems, however, thofe methods only are given
which appear to be moft eafily applied to praftice, and
which, at the fame time, will anfwer any propofed pur-
pofe.
Problem I. To deferibe in the plane of elevation the
(beer or curvature of the top timbers.
Let OR (fig 3.) be the length of the (hip between pjate
the wing tranfom and the rabbet of the ftem. Thencccclxxxv.
(nice it is generally agreed, efpecially by the French Fig. 3.
conftruftors, that the broadeft part of the (hip ought 38
to be about one-twelfth of the length before the main ^ ^Place
frame or dead flat; therefore make F© equal to five-mam frame
twelfths of QR, and © will be the ftation of the main about one-
frame j fpace the other frames on the keel, and from twekh be-
thefe points let perpendiculars be drawn to the keel.^j^6^
Let ©P be the height of the (hip at the main frame, the thin
YF
'2^6
Preliminary
Problems.
39
Method of
defcribing
the toptim
her line.
40
The idem,
Fig 3-
41
and poft.
Fig- 3-
4*
Main half
breadth
line.
F'g- 4-
S H I P-B U
VF the height at the aftermoft frame, and RK the
height at the Item. Through P draw EPL parallel
to the keel j defcribe the quadrants PGI, PMN, the
radius being P0 ; make PH equal to EF, and PO
equal KL, and draw the parallels GH, OM : Divide
' GH fimilar to 0C, and OM limilar to 0R. Through
thefe points of divifion draw lines perpendicular to EL,
and the feveral portions of thefe perpendiculars contain¬
ed between EL and the arch will be the rifings of the
top-timber line above EL. A curve drawn through
thefe points will form the top-timber line.
This line is more eafily drawn by means of a curved or
bent ruler, fo placed that it may touch the three points
F, P, and K.
Pros. II. To defcribe the Hem.
Let K (fig. 3.) be the upper part of the Rem, through
which draw KS parallel to the keel, and equal to twice
KR : Through the termination of the wales on the
Rem draw TW parallel to £)R. Then from the centre
S, with the diRance SK, defcribe an arch : Take an
extent equal to the neareR diftance between the parallels
WT, QR j and find the point W, Rich that one point
of the compafs being placed there, the other point will
juR touch the neareR part of the above arch •, and from
this point as a centre defcribe an arch until it meets the
keel, and the Rem will be formed.
Pros. III. To defcribe the RernpoR.
Set off QV (fig. 3.) for tb-j rake of the poft : draw
VX perpendicular to the keel, and equal to the height
of the wing tranfom, join OX, and it wdll reprefent the
aft fide of the poft.
Prob. IV. To defcribe the half breadth line.
Let MN (fig. 4.) be the given length : Make N0
equal to five-twelfths of MN } draw the line 0P per¬
pendicular to MN, and equal to the propofed extreme
half breadth. Let ME be the round aft of the ftern
or wfing tranfom ; make EO perpendicular to MN, and
equal to the given half breadth at the ftern, which is
generally between two-thirds and three-fourths of the
main half breadth ; and defcribe the arch MO, the
centre of which is in the middle line. Space the frames
(A), A, B, &c. and (1), 1, 2, See. From the centre
0, wfith the radius 0P, deferibe the quadrant PRS;
defcribe alfo the quadrant PCT. Through the point
O draw ORU parallel to MN; divide the ftraight line
RU fimilar to M0 5 and through thefe points of di¬
vifion draw lines perpendicular to MN, and meeting
the arch. Transfer thefe lines to the correfpondent
frames each to each, and a curve drawn through the
extremities will reprefent that part of the fide contain¬
ed between the main frame and the ftern. Again,
through Q, the extremity of the foremoft frame, draw
QV parallel to MN. Or make PV a fourth or third
part of PU, according as it is intended to make the fhip
more or lefs full towards the bowT. Divide VC fimilar
to ©C ; through thefe points draw lines perpendi¬
cular to MN, and terminating in the quadrantal arch :
Transfer thefe lines to the correfponding timbers in the
fore part, and a curve drawn through the extreme points
will limit that part of the fhip’s fide contained between
P and Q. Continue the curve to the next timber at
X. From 0 draw QZ perpendicular to QX ; make
the angle ZNQ equal to ZQN, and the point Z will
be the centre of the arch forming the bow. Remark,
I L D I N G.
if it is prepofed that the breadth of the fhlp at the frames PreHminary
adjacent to the main frame ftiall be equal to the breadth i Hroblems..
at the main frame } in this cafe, the centres of the qua- ^
drantal arches will be at the points of interfeftion of
thefe frames with the line MN ; namely, at (A) and
(1). Alfo, if the height of the ftiip at the frames (A)
and (1) is to he the fame as at dead flat, the quadrantal
arches in fig. 3. are to be deferibed from the points of
interfeftion of thefe frames with the line EL.
Thefe rules, it is evident, are variable at pleafure j
and any perfon acquainted with the firft principles of
mathematics may apply Calculation to find the radii of
the feveral Iweeps.
Prob. V. To defcribe the main frame or dead flat. 4-
This frame is that which contains the greateft fpace, Ofthe mid-
and the particular form of each of the other frames de-®’’P ^rame*
pends very much on it. If the fhip is intended to carry
a great burden in proportion to her principal dimenfions,
this frame is made very full } but if Ihe is intended to
fail faff, it is ufually made flisrp. Hence arifes diverfity
of opinions refpe61ing its form ; each conftruftor ufing
that which to him appears preferable. In order to fave
repetition, it is judged proper to explain certain opera¬
tions which neceffarily enter into all the different me¬
thods of conftruffing this frame.
In the plane of the upper fide •of the keel produced, General
draw the line AB (fig. 5.) equal to the propofed breadth prerepts for
ofthe fhip j bileft AB in C, and draw AD, CE, and ^etcnh‘no
BE, perpendicular to AB. Then, fince the two fideSp'
of a fhip are fimilar, it is therefore thought fufficient to b ^
defcribe the half of each frame between the main frame
and the ftern on one fide of the middle line CE, and
the half of each of thofe before the main frame on the
other fide of it. The firft half is called the after-body,
and the other the fore-body. The after-body is com¬
monly deferibed on the left fide of the middle line j and
the fore-body on the right fide of it: hence the line
AD is called the fde line of the after body, and BE
the fide line of the fore body. Make AD and BF each
equal to the height, of the fliip at the main frame. Make
AG, EG, and AH, BH, equal to the lower and upper
heights of breadth refpeftively, taken from the fheer
plan. Let 1 I be the load rvater line, or line of floata¬
tion when the fhip is loaded, and KK the height of the
riling line of the floor at this frame. Make CN, CO,
each equal to half the length of the floor timber, and
N, O, will be the heads of the floor timber, through
which draw perpendiculars to AB. Make Cot, E ot,
each equal to half the thicknefs of the fternpoft, and C«,
Et?, equal to half the thicknefs of the ftern, and join
mm, nn.
Method I. Of defcribing a main frame.—From the
centre a (fig. 5 ), in the lower breadth line, defcribe
the lower breadth fw’eep G e ■, make N b equal to the
propofed radius of the floor fweep, and from the centre
b defcribe the floor fweep N f Let the radius of the
reconciling fweep be A.g, equal to about the half of
AC j then make A h equal to N b, and A m equal to
G a. Now from the centre a, wfith an extent equal to
g ot, defcribe an arch, and from the centre b, with the
extent g h, defcribe an arch interfefting the former in
c, which will be the centre of the reconciling fweep ef.
Join N ot by an inverted curve, the centre of which may
be in the line b N produced downwards j or it may be
joined
S H I P-B U
Frelimin*- joined by two curves, or by a ftraight line if there is
ry ?ro. little rifing 5 and hence the lower part of the main frame
blems. ^ wU1 ^ Jefcj-Jbed,
“ In order to form the top timber, make F k equal to
fuch part of the half breadth, agreeable to the propo-
fed round of the tide, as one-feventh j join H and
make k i equal to about two-thirds of H £ : make the
angle H i l equal to f H /; and from the centre / at the
diftance /H defcribe the arch H i; and from the centre
0, the interle&ioh of / /, and k F produced, defcribe the
arch and the top timber will be formed.
II. To defcribe a main frame of an intermediate ca¬
pacity, that is, neither too fat nor too jharp.—Divide the
Fig. 6. line AX (fig. 6.), which limits the head of the floor
timber, into three equal parts ; and make a b equal to
one of them. Divide the line d B, the perpendicular
diftance between the load water line and the plane of
the upper fide of the keel, into feven equal parts } and
fet off one of thefe parts from d \.o c, and from c to m.
Let GH be the lorver deck, join G m, and produce it
to q. Draw the ftraight line V a, bifea it in n, and
from the points n, a, defcribe arches with the radius G q
interfe&ing each other in P, which will be the centre of
the arch // a. The centre of the arch V n is found by
defcribing arches downwards with the fame radius.
With an extent equal to once and a half of B e, de¬
fcribe arches from the points b,e, interfefting each other
in A, and from this point as a centre defcribe the arch
cb ; make a lequal to dm, and join A rra, A /. Then,
in order to reconcile two arches fo as to make a fair
curve, the centres of thefe arches and of the points of
contaft mufl be in the fame ftraight line. Hence the
point k will be the centre of the arch dm, and 0 the
centre of the arch a l. The arch / w is defcribed from
the centre A.
To form the top timber, fet back the tenth part of
the half breadth from K to S upon the line of the fe-
cond deck j then with an extent equal to two-thirds of
the whole breadth defcribe an arch through the points
S and H, the upper height of breadth. Again, make
MI equal to the fifth part of the half breadth ; defcribe
an arch of a circle through the points S and T, taking
the diagonal GB for the radius. As this arch is in¬
verted in refpeft of the arch </S, the centre will be
without the figure. Hence one-half of the main frame
is formed, and the other half is defcribed by fimilar ope¬
rations.
Remark. This frame may be made more or lefs full
by altering the feveral radii.
III. To defcribe a mainframe of a circular form.—
Plate Let the feveral lines be drawn as before : Then make
recclxxxvi. O a (fig. 7.) equal to the half breadth G o, and from
Fig. 7. the centre a, with the radius G a, defcribe the arch
bG cO. Let d be the head of the floor-timber, and
dx the rifing. Aflume the point j in the arch, ac¬
cording to the propofed round of the fecond futtock, and
defcribe the arch df; the centre of which may be found
as in the former method : from the centre a, with the
diftance a d, defcribe the arch dc O •, make dc equal to
one-third of d O, and the angle d c h equal to c d h. and
from the centre h defcribe the arch d c. The inverted
arch c O may be defcribed as before.
IV. To defcribe a very full jnain frame.—Let the
vertical and horizontal lines be drawn as before : let b,
pjor s fig. 8. be the floor-head, and bx the rifing. Divide Gc
k' * Vol. XIX. Part I.
TIDING. 2
into two equal parts in the point d, and upon c d de- PreUminH-
fcribe the fquare db a c, in which infcribe the quadrant
de a. Divide the line bd into any number of equal parts l ".'l 1
in the points O, N, M, L, and draw the lines L w, Me,
N «, O &, perpendicular to db. Divide the line G C,
the depth of the hold, the rifing being deducted, into
the fame number of equal parts in the points E,F, I,K,
and make the lines E/>, Y q, l r, Kr, in the frame,
equal to the lines Ob, N n, M e, L ?n, in the fquare,
each to each refpeftively ; and through the points G, p,
q, r, r, b, defcribe a curve. The remaining part of the
frame may be defcribed by the preceding methods.
V. To defcribe the main frame of a Jhip intended to
be a faf failed.—The principal lines being drawn as be¬
fore, let the length of the floor-timber be equal to half
the breadth of the ftiip, and the rifing one-fifth or one-
fixth of the whole length of the floor-timber, which lay
off from x to E, fig. 9. Through the point E draw the Fig. $
line T x perpendicular to GC, and d E perpendicular to
AG. Join T d, which bifeft in B, and draw BF per¬
pendicular thereto, and meeting CG produced in F,
from the centre F, at the diftance FT, defcribe the fe-
micircle T</D. Divide GT into any number of parts,
VW, &c. and bifeff the intervals DV, DW, &c. in
the points X, Z, &c. ; then, from the centre X, with
the extent XV, defcribe the femicircle D V, interfec-
ting AG in b. Let VP be drawn perpendicular to
GT, and b P perpendicular to AG, and the point of in-
terfeflion P will be one point through which the curve
is to pafs. In like manner proceed for the others, and
a curve drawn through all the points of interfeflion will
be part of the curve of the main frame. The remain¬
ing part of the curve from E to Y will be compofed of
two arches, the one to reconcile with the former part
of the curve at E, and the other to pafs through the
point Y, the centre of which may be found by any of
the preceding methods. In order to find the centre of
that which joins with the curve at E, make TR equal
to the half of GD, and join ER, in which a proper centre
for this arch may be eafily found.
The portion G E of the curve is a parabola, whofe
vertex is G and parameter GD.
For GD : G b \ : G b \ GV by conftruftion.
Hence DG x GV = Gb2, which is the equation for
a parabola.
VI. To defcribe a main frame of a middling capaci¬
ty.—Let the length of the floor-timber be equal to one-
half of the breadth of the (hip. Make O d, fig. 10. Fig. ro._
equal to one-fourth of the length of the floor-timber,
and draw the perpendicular dc equal to the rifing, and
divide it into two equal parts in the point e. Defcribe
an arch through e, and the extremity a of the floor-tim¬
ber, the radius being equal to the half breadth, or more
or lefs according to the propofed round of the floor-head.
Then with the radius O /, half the length of the floor-
timber, defcribe the arch e Y.
Draw7 / m perpendicular to O A : bifedl A « in />, and
draw7 the perpendicular p-q. From the middle of A/*
draw7 the perpendicular r s, and from the middle of Ar
draw the perpendicular t u. Make n pg, each equal
io ln : make the diftances py, r b, each equal to ag;
r F, £ E, each equal to a b; and t x equal to a it.. Then
a curve drawn through the points a, S5, y, F, x, T, will
form the under part of the midfliip frame.
We ftiall finifti thefe methods of defcribing the main
K k frame
SHI P-B U
Prchmina- frame of a fnip with the following remark from M. Vial
biems.* du C]ail'boJs *• “ It leems (fays he) that they have af-
  fe&ed to avoid ftraight lines in naval archite&ure j yet,
* Arcbitec geometrically fpeaking, it appears that a main frame
tz,re Na- formed of ftraight lines will have both the advantage
P- 22- and fimplicity over others.” To illuftrate this, draw
the ftraight line M N (fig. 9.) in fuch a manner that
the mixtilineal fpace Mad may be equal to the mix-
tilineal fpace DNY. Hence the capacity of the main
frame formed by the ftraight lines MN, NY will be
equal to that of the frame formed by the curve M a
D Y ; and the frame formed by the ftraight lines will
for the moft part be always more fufceptible of receiving
Traite tie a bow that v/ill eafily divide the fluid, ft is alfo evi-
ForZZf dent’ that the Carg° Cr ballaV being lower in the frame
p. 601. ’ formed of ftraight lines than in the other, it will there¬
fore be more advantageoufly placed, and wall enable the
ihip to carry more fail (c) 3 fo that having a bow equal¬
ly w7ell or better formed, the will fail fafter.
Tp. Prob. VI. I o defer!be a ftern having a fquare tuck.
Let AB (fig. II.) be the middle line of the poft,
and let CD be drawn parallel thereto atadiftance equal
to half the thicknefs of the poft. Make CE equal to
the height of the lower part of the faftiion-piece above
the keel: make CT equal to the height of the extre¬
mity G of the tranfom above the plane of the keel pro¬
duced, and CH equal to the height of the tranfom on
the poft, HT being equal to above one-ninth or one-
tenth of GT, and deferibe the arch GH, the centre of
which will be in BA produced : make EK equal to
five-twelfths of ET : through K draw KL perpendicu¬
lar to CD, and equal to EK ; and with an extent equal
to EL deferibe the arch EL. Make GI equal to the
half of ET, and from the centre I deferibe the arch
GM, and draw the reconciling curve ML,—Let the
curve of the fafhion-piece be produced upwards to the
point reprefenting the upper height of breadth as at O.
Make ON equal to the height of the top-timber, and
BN equal to the half breadth at that place, and join
ON. Through N and the upper part of the counter,
let arches be deferibed parallel to GH. The tafferel,
windows, and remaining part of the ftern, may be finilh-
ed agreeable to the fancy of the artift.
”• In fig. 12. the projection of the ftern on the plane of
elevation is laid down, the method of doing which is
obvious from infpeCtion.
_ II the tranfom is to round aft, then fince the falhion-
pieces are always fided ftraight, their planes will inter-
, the Iheer and floor planes in a ftraight line. Let
rccclxxxvii. G/ M*) be the interaction of the plane of the fa-
Fig. 14. Ihion-piece with the floor plane. From the point g draw
g\V perpendicular to gM : make yk equal to the height
of the tuck, and W£ being joined will be the interfec-
tion of the plane of the fafliion-piece with the fheer
plane. Let the water lines in the flieer plane produced
meet the line k W in the points a, s, ht and draw the per¬
pendiculars aa.,fs, hk. From the points <7, r, h (fig. 14.)
draw lines parallel to G6o- to interfeCl each correspond¬
ing water line in the floor plane in the points 3, 2, 1.
I L D I N G.
From the points G, 3, 2, I, in the floor-plane draw Preiimma.
-ines perpendicular to g M, interfeCling the water lines rY Pro-
(fig. 13.) in the points G, 3, 2, 15 and through thefe ,
points deferibe the curve G 3 2 1 and WG 3 2, v—'
1 k will be the projeCHon of the plane of the faftiion-
piece on the flieer plane. Through the points G, 3, 2,
1 (fig. 13.) draw the lines GF, 3 A, 2 S, 1 H, per- Fi? ,,
pendicular to W k ; and make the lines WF, « A, j- S
h H, equal to the lines g G, « 3, J- 2, /i i (fig. 14!) re’
fpeCliveiy, and \\ I'ASH ^ will be the true form of the
plane of the aft fide ot the fafliion-piece. When it is
m its proper pofidon, the line WF will be in the fame
plane with the flieer line ; the line a A in the fame
plane with the water line a 3 j the line s S in the fame
plane with the water line j- 2 j and the line /i H in the
fame plane with the water line /i 1. If lines be drawn
from the fcveral points of interfeClion of the water lines
with the rabbet of the port (fig. 13.), perpendicular to
g M, and curved lines being drawn from thefe points to
G, 3, 2, 1 (fig. 14.) refpeCtively, will give the form r
and dimenfions of the tuck at the feveral water lines. g’ 4*
I rob. \ II. Fo bevel the faftuon-piece of a iquare
tuck by water-lines.
As the fafliion-piece both rakes and cants, the planes
of the water-lines will therefore interfect it higher on
the aft than on the fore-fide : but before the heights on
thi fore-fide can be found, the breadth of the timber
muft be determined 5 which let be £ n (fig. 1 s-.). Then
as it cants, the breadth in the direCb'on of the water¬
line will exceed the true breadth. In order to find the
true breadth, form the aft-fide of the faftiion-piecc as di-
reCIed in the laft problem.
Let t $ (fig. 13.) be the aft-fide of the rabbet on the pv
outfide of the poft, WM the common lecHon of the plan '6’ 3’
of the fafliion-piece and the ftieer-plan. Before this laft
line can be determined, the feveral water-lines r, 2. 3,
4, and 3, muft be drawn parallel to the keel, which may
reprefent fo many tranfoms.~_Let thefe water-lines be
formed and ended at the aft-fide of the rabbet, as in
hft’ I4- where the rounds aft of the leveral tranfoms are
deferibed, limiting the curves of the water-lines. Now
the line WM muft rake fo as to leave room for half the
thicknefs of the poft, at the tuck : in order to which,
produce to r; make half the thicknefs of the
poft j through r draw a line parallel to g M to interfeft
gQ\x\b : then with the radius rb, from x the point of
the tuck as a centre, deferibe an arch, and draw the line
WM juft to touch the back of that arch.
1 he line WM being drawn, let any point h in it be
aflumed at pleafurc 1 from k draw h y perpendicular to
g M : through y draw ?// (fig. 14.) parallel to g G, in-
terfedling the line M / drawn perpendicular to g Pvl in
the point _/! From IVI draw M2 perpendicular to 7/
and from ?/ draw y n perpendicukr to WM (fig. 13.).
Make M n (fig. 15.) equal to M i (fig. 14.) ; then MI
(fig. 15.) being equal to y k (fig. 13.), join » 1, and
the angle 1 n M will be the bevelling to the horizontal
plane. Again, make M a, M/ (fig. 1 5.) refpe&ively
equal ioy n (fig. 13.) and M/(fig. 14.), and join ss/j
and
,1 (CX h y n0i a gen,era^ ruIe’ that lowering the cargo of a flflp augments her ftability. This is demonftrated by'
Zr PUbb,hed by M- de Goiropy ll'is S« I* Navi
S HIP-BUILBIN G,
blems
Tig. 15.
preliniina- and the angle M 2; f will be the bevelling to the Iheer-
rv tJro" plane.
The bevelling being now found, draw the line a b
(fig. 15.) parallel to £a % or b n being the fcanlling
of the timber. Then n sc will be the breadth of the
timber on the horizontal plane, and 2; e its breadth on
the Iheer-plane, and a c what it is within a fquare.
Now as the lines ^ G, <7 3, j 2, h 1, y i, reprefent
the aft-fide of the falhion-piece on the horizontal plane
(fig. 14.)i dotted lines may be drawn parallel to them
to reprefent the fore-fide, making nx (fig. 15.) the per¬
pendicular diftance between the lines reprefenting fore
and aft fides of the fafhion-piece. By thefe lines form
the fore-fide of the falhion-piece in the fame manner as
the aft-fide was formed. The water-lines on the fore-
fide of the plane of the fafhion-piece muft, however, be
firft drawn in fig. 13. thus : Draw the lines e b, cd pa¬
rallel to WM, and whofe perpendicular diftances there¬
from may be equal to 0 c and z e (fig. 15.) refpeftive-
ly. Draw a line parallel to a A through the point
where the line cd interfe&s the fifth water-line. Draw
a line parallel to A through the point wdiere the
fourth water-line interfefts the line cd', \n like manner
proceed with the other Water-lines. The fore-fide of
the fafhion-piece is now to be defcribed by means of
thefe new water-lines, obferving that the diftances in
the floor-plane muft be fet off from the line c b, and not
from WM, as in the former cafe 5 and a curve defcrib¬
ed through the points 5, 3, 2, 1, where thefe diftances
reach to, wrill reprefent the fore-fide of the fafhiori-piece.
The neareft diftance between the points 3, 3, 2, 1
and the aft fide of the faftiion-piece is what the bevelling
is beyond the fquare when both flock and tongue of
the bevel are perpendicular to the timber. Make M />
(fig. 16.) equal to the breadth of the timber, and M 5
equal to the perpendicular diftance of the point 5
(fig. 13.) from the aft-iide of the fafhion-piece, and
join 5 fi. In like manner proceed with the others, and
the bevellings at thefe parts will be obtained j but, in
order to avoid confufion, the perpendiculars 4, 3, 2,
(fig. 13.), inftead of being laid off from M (fig. 16.),
were fet off from points as far below M as the other ex¬
tremities of the lines drawn from thefe points are below
the point p.
Prob. VIII. To defcribe the tranfoms of a round
poop.
The tranfoms are faftened to the ftern-poft in the
fame manner that the floor-timbers are faftened to the
keel, and have a rifing called the flight fimilar to the ri¬
ling of the floor-timbers. The upper tranfom is called
the wing tranfom, the next the deck tranfom, and the
others \\\e firfl,feco}id, and third tranfoms in order. The
wing tranfom has a round aft and a round up : the round
op of the deck tranfom is the fame as that of the beams.
The fafhion-piece of a fquare tuck muft be firft de¬
fcribed, together with the three adjacent frames, by the
method to be explained. The part of the fterp above
the wfing tranfom is to be defcribed in the fame manner
as before, and may therefore be omitted in this place.
The part below the keel of the fafhion-piece is alfo the
Plate fame in both cafes. Let fig. 17. reprefent the fafhion-
' piece of a fquare tuck, and the three adjoining frames.
0 7' Divide the interval AB into four equal parts in the
points C, D, E, and draw the perpendiculars AF, CG,
Fie. 16.
DH, El, and BK ; thefe will be portions of water-lines Prelirr
anfwering to the feveral tranfoms. 17 iJ
Let thefe water-lines be defcribed on the ftoor-plam ;
(fig. 18.), in which ABC repreients the wing tran-pj„, jg
lom. Defcribe the arch b C to reconcile the curves b
Ab and CE. Let Lbc^ be the water-line anfwering
to the lower part of the fafhion-piece, the diftance be¬
tween the points L and A being equal to the excefs
of the projection of the point A beyond that of B
(fig. 20.). Draw7 CK (fig. 18.) perpendicular to AM,
and make the angle KCM equal to about 25 degrees,
and CN will be the projection of the faftiion-piece on
the floor-plane. Make AB (fig. 19.) equal to ABFig.
(fig. 17.). Divide it into four equaT parts, and draw
the perpendiculars AF, CH, DI, EK, and BG. Make
AF equal to CM, and BG equal to MN, and draw the
curve FHIKG, having a lefs curvature than the fa-
fhion-piece of the fquare tuck scpgn. Make MO
MP, M£), equal to CH, DI, and EK refpeCtively.
Divide AL (fig. 18.) into four equal parts, and to
thefe points of divifion draw curves through the points
O, P, O, fo as to partake partly of the curvature of
A b CE and partly of that of LNF, but moft of the
curvature of that to which the propofed curve is near¬
eft ; and hence the form of the feveral tranfjms will be
obtained.
In order to reprefent the curve of the fafhion-piece
on the plane of projection, make the lines AF, CG,
DH, El, and BK, (fig. 17.) refpeCtively equal to the
perpendicular diftance of the points C, O, P, Q, and N.
From the line AN (fig. 18.), and through the extremi¬
ties of thefe lines, draw the curve FGHIK.
It remains to lay down the projection of the fafhion-
piece on the plane of elevation. In order to which, di¬
vide the line AB, fig. 20. (equal to AB, fig. 17.) into FC. 2c.
four equal parts, and through the points of divifion
draw the perpendiculars AF, CG, DH, El, and BK j
make AF (fig. 20.) equal to the perpendicular diftance
of the point C from the line BL (fig. 18.). In like man¬
ner make the lines CG, DH, El, and BK (fig. 20.) re¬
fpeCtively equal to the perpendicular diftances of the
points O, P, £), and N, from the line BL (fig. 18.) ;
and a curve drawn through thefe points will be the pro¬
jection of the fafhion-piece on the plane of elevation.
Pros. IX. To defcribe the intermediate frames in
the after body.
For this purpofe the midfhip and ftern frames muft
be drawn in the plane of projection. As the main frame
contains the greateft capacity, and the ftern frame is
that having the leaft, it hence follows that the form and
dimenfions of the intermediate frames will be between
thefe ; each frame, however, partaking moft of the form
of that to which it is neareft.
Let ACDE (fig. 21.) be the main frame on the Fig, 21.
plane of projection, and FGH the ftern frame \ and let
there be any convenient number of intermediate frames,
as nine. Draw the floor ribband CF, and the breadth
ribband GD. Divide the curves CD, EG, each into
the fame number of equal parts, as three, in the points
K, M ; L, N 5 and draw7 the fecond and third ribbands
KL, MN. In order to divide thefe ribbands fo as to
form fair curves in different feCIions, various methods
have been propofed. One of the beft of thefe, being
that which is chiefly employed by the French conftruc-
K k 2 tors
-6o S H I P-B U
r’relimina- tors is by means of an equilateral triangle, which is con-
*7 ftrufted as follows.
. biem;, ^ Draw the line ME (fig. 22.), limited at M, but pro-
Pg 2„ duced towards E : take M i equal to any convenient
extent j make I, 2 equal to thxice that extent, 2, 3
equal to five times, and 3, 4 equal to feven times the
above extent} and continue this divilion to E, always
increaling by two, until there be as many points as there
are frames, including the main and ftern frames. Up¬
on ME defcribe the equilateral triangle MSE, and draw
lines from the vertex S to each point of divifion •, then
the line SM will be that anfwering to the main frame,
and SE that correfponding to the poll ; and the other
lines will be thofe anfweiing to the intermediate frames
in order.
^ Let fig. 23. be the projeftion of part of the ftern on
^ the plane of elevation, together with the eighth and
ninth frames. From the points L, N, G, (fig. 21.)
draw the lines LO, NP, G(^, perpendicular to the
plane of the upper edge of the keel. Make AB (fig.
23.) equal to AF (fig. 21.), and draw the waterline
BCD. Draw the line BC (fig. 22.) lb that it may be
parallel to the bafe of the triangle, and equal to CD
(fig. 23.), which produce indefinitely towards H. Make
BD equal to EC (fig. 23.), and draw the dotted line
SD (fig. 22.). The ribband FC (fig. 21.) is to be ap¬
plied to the triangle, fo that it may be parallel to the
bafe, and contained between the line MS and the dot¬
ted line SD. Let cf reprefent this line \ then transfer
the feveral divifions from cf to the ribband CF (fig. 21.),
and number them accordingly. Again, make EF (fig.
23.) equal to LO (fig. 21.), and draw the water line
FGH; make BF (fig. 22.) equal to FG (fig. 23.),
and draw the dotted line SF $ apply the fecond ribband
LK to the triangle, fo that the extremity K may be
on the line SM, and the other extremity L on the dot¬
ted line SF, and making with SM an angle of about
624 degrees. Let hi be this line, and transfer the divi¬
fions from it to the ribband KL. In like manner make
IK (fig. 23.) equal to NP (fig. 21.), and draw the wa-
ter line KLM. Make EG (fig. 22.) equal to KL (fig.
23.), and draw the dotted line SG j then the ribband
MN is to be applied to the triangle in fuch a manner
that its extremities M and N may be upon the lines
SM, SG refpedlively, and that it may make an angle
of about 68 degrees with the line SM ; and the divi-
iions are to be transferred from it to the ribband MN.
The fame procefs is to be followed to divide the other
ribbands, obferving to apply the fourth ribband to the
triangle, fo that it may make an angle of 86 degrees
with the line SM ; the fifth ribband to make an angle
of 6 3 degrees, and the fixth an angle of 60 degrees with
the line SM.
The quantities of thefe angles are, however, far from
being precifely fixed. Some conftru£!ors, in applying
the ribbands to the triangle, make them all parallel to
its bafe j and others vary the meafures of thefe angles
according to fancy. It may alfo be remarked, that a
different method of dividing the bafe of the triangle is
ufed by fome. It is certainly proper to try different
I L D I N G.
methods 5 and that is to be preferred which bell anfwers PreHmina.
the intended purpofc. ry ,‘l0~
Befide the frames already mentioned, there are other ^n15' .
two laid down by fome conllruftors in the feveral plans,
called balance frames. The after balance frame is placed
at one fourth of the length of the ftrip before the Hern-
poll •, and the other, commonly called the loofframe, at
one fourth of the (hip’s length aft of a perpendicular to
the keel from the rabbet of the Item. Let the dotted
line at X, between the fifth and fixth frames, (fig. 23.)
be the place of the after balance frame in the plane of
elevation. Then, in order to lay down this frame in the
plane of projection, its reprefentation mull be previoufly
drawn in the triangle. To-accomplilh this, draw the
line SV (fig. 22.) fo that the interval 5V may have the
fame ratio to 5 6 (fig. 22.) that 5 X has to 5 6 (fig.
23.) (d). Then the feveral points in the ribbands in
the plane of projeftion anfwering to this frame are to
be found by means of the triangle in the fame manner
as before.
The loof frame is nearly of the fame dimenfions as
the after balance frame, or rather of a little greater ca¬
pacity, in order that the centre of gravity of that part
of the (hip may be nearly in the plane of the midfhip
frame. Hence the loof frame may be eafily drawn in
the plane of projection, and hence alfo the other frames
in the fore body may be readily defcribed.
Prob. X. To deicribe the frames in the fore body.
Draw the middle line of the ftem AB (fig. 24.) j p;g> ^
make AC, BD each equal to half the thicknels of the
ftem, and draw the line CD ; defcribe alfo one half of
the main frame CEFGHI. Let e E^F, ^ G, h H, be
water lines at the heights of the ribbands on the main
frame ; alfo let a be the termination of the floor ribband,
and b that of the breadth ribband on the ftem. Divide
the interval a b into three equal parts in the points c, d,
and draw the ribbands a E, c F, G, and b H. Make
e i, fh, gl, hm (fig. 24.) equal to ei,fh, g l, hm
(fig. 21.) refpeCtively, and draw the curve Ciklm,
which will be the projeClion of the loof frame. Or fince
it is neceffary that the capacity of the loof frame ftiould
be a little greater than that of the after balance frame,
each of the above lines may be increafed by a propor¬
tional part of itfelf, as one tenth or one twentieth, as
may be judged proper.
ConftruCt the triangle (fig. 25.) in the fame manner
as fig. 22. only obferving, that as there are fewer frames
in the fore than in the after body, its bafe will therefore
be divided into few^er parts. Let there be eight frames
in the fore body, then there wfill be eight divifions in
the bafe of the triangle befide the extremes.
Let fig. 26. reprefent the ftem and part of the fore-
body in the plane of elevation, and let O be the place
of the loof frame. Divide the interval 4, 5 (fig. 25.)
fo that 4, 5 may be to 4 Z as 4, 5 to 4, o (fig. 26.),
and draw the dotted line SZ, which will be the line de¬
noting the loof frame in the triangle.
Draw the lines AB, CD, EF, GH (fig. 26.) paral-Fjg. 2g.
lei to the keel, and whofe perpendicular diftances there-
from may be equal to C <7, C c, Cdy G^, (fig. 24.) the
interfeClions
(d) It is evident, from the method ufed to divide the bafe of the triangle, that this proportion does not agrea
sxaCUy with the conflruClion : the difference, however, being fmall, is therefore negleded in praCtice,
S H I P-B U
Prelimina- inteircftions of thefa lines with the rabbet of the Item,
>•* Pro- namely, the points I, K, L, M will be the points of
blems' termination of the feveral ribbands on the ftem in the
' v ' plane of elevation. Divide 8 A (fig. 25.) fo that 8 B,
8 C, 8 D, and 8 E, may be refpe&ively equal to BI,
DK, FL, and HM (fig. 26.), and draw the dotted
lines SB, SC, SD, SE (fig. 25.). Apply the ,edge of
a flip of card to the firlt ribband (fig. 24.), and mark
thereon the extremities of the ribband a, E, and alfo
the point of interfe&ion of the loot frame. Then ap¬
ply this flip of card to the triangle in Inch a manner
that the point a may be on the dotted line SB, the
point E on the line SM, and the point anfwering to the
loof frame on the dotted line SZ ; and mark upon the
card the feveral points of interfeftion of the lines S 1,
S 2, &c. Now apply the card to the ribband a E (fig.
24.) as before, and transfer the feveral points of divi¬
sion from it to the ribband. In like manner proceed
with the other ribbands ; and lines drawn through the
correfpondmg points in the ribbands will be the piojec-
tion of the lower part of the frames in the fore body.
The proje&ions of the top-timbers of the feveral frames
may be taken from the half breadth plan j and hence
each top-timber may be eafily deferibed.
In large fhips, particularly in thofe of the French
navy, a different method is employed to form the top-
timbers in the fore body, which is as follows .
Plate LPt jji (fig, 27.) be one fourth of the breadth of
cccekxsix. the ^.[p) and& draw IK parallel to AB. Take the
‘S‘ 27‘ height of the foremoft frame from the plane of eleva¬
tion, and lay it off from A to B : from the point B
draw BH perpendicular to AB, and equal to half the
length of the wing tranfom. Let E be the place of
the breadth ribband on the main frame, and F its place
on the ftem at the height of the wing tranfom. With
a radius equal to five fixths of half the greateft breadth
l8 of the (hip deferibe the quadrant EFG (fig. 28.) :
Make EH equal to EG (fig. 27.), the point F being
at the height of the wing tranfom. Through H draw
HO perpendicular to EH, and interfeaing the circum¬
ference in O j then draw OL parallel to HE, and EE
parallel to HO. Divide EL into as. many equal parts
as there are frames in the fore body, including the mam
frame, and from thefe points of divifiondraw the per¬
pendiculars 11, 22, &c. meeting the circumference as
in the figure. Take the diftance 11, and lay it off
from G (fig. 27.) towards F to the point 1 ; and from
the fame point G lay off towards F the feveral per¬
pendiculars contained between the ftraight line and the
curve to the points 2, ^nd through thefe points
draw lines parallel to EG.
Fig- 29. Take any line AB (fig. 29.) at pleafure : divide it
equally in two in the point 8 divide 8 B in two parts
in the point 7, and continue this method of divifion un¬
til there are as many points as there are frames in the
fore body, including the main frame. Upon AB con-
ftrueft the equilateral triangle ACB, and draw the lines
C 8, C 7, &c. Place a Hip of card on the parallel
« K 8 (fig. 27.), and mark thereon the points oppofite
to a, K, and 8 ; and let them be denoted accordingly.
Then apply this flip of card to the triangle, io that the
point a, which is that anfwering to the rabbet of the
ftem, may be on the line AC; that the point anfwer¬
ing to K may be on C 8, and the extremity 8 on the
liiTe CB ; and mark on the card the points of intsifec-
I L D I N G. 261
tion of the lines C 7, C 6, &c. and number them ac- Prelimina-
cordingly. Now apply this flip of card to the feventh rye"0J
parallel (fig. 23.), the points being on the line CD,
and mark °on this parallel the point of interfe&ion 7 j
Aide the card down to the fixth parallel, to which tratft-
fer the point N° 6. In like manner proceed with the
other parallels.
The point K, at the interfe&ion of the line IK with
the' eighth parallel, is one point through which the
eighth frame paffes. From this point upwards a curve
is to be deferibed fo as to reconcile with the hnver part
of this frame already deferibed, and the upper part,
forming an inverted arch, which is to terminate at H.
This top-timber may be formed by two fweeps, whofe.
radii and centres are to be determined partly from cir-
cumftances and partly according to fancy. It how¬
ever may be more readily formed by hand.
Let LM (fig. 27.) be the line of the fecond deck
at the main frame, and let LN be the difference of the
draught of water, if any. Make GN (fig. 28.) equal
to LN : draw NM perpendicular to GN, meeting the
circle in M j and through the points G and M draw
the parallels GV and MV 5 divide GN as before, and
from the feveral points of divifion draw perpendiculars
terminating in the curve. Transfer thefe perpendicu¬
lars from L upwards (fig. 270> anc^ through the points
thus found draw the lines 11, 22, &c. parallel to LM.
Apply a flip of card to the eighth parallel, and mark
upon it the point anfwering to the ftem, the eightlj and
main frames : carry this to the triangle, and place it fo
that thefe points may be on the correfponding lines.
Then the points of interfeftion of the lines C 7, C 6,
&c. are to be marked on the card, which is now to be
applied firft to the eighth parallel (fig. 27..), then to
the feventh, &c. transferring the feveral points of divi¬
fion in order as before.
Draw the line HO (fig. 27.) j mark its length on a
flip of card, and apply it to the triangle, fo that it may
be parallel to its bate, and its extremities one on the
eighth and the other on the main frame : mark on the
card the points of interfeftion of the feveral intermedi¬
ate lines as before ; then apply the card to HO, and
transfer the divifions.
There are now three points determined through
which each top-timber muft pafs, namely, one in the
breadth ribband, one in the fifth, and one in the upper
ribband. Through thefe curves are to be deferibed;
fo as to reconcile with the lower part of the frame, and
partake partly of the curvature of the eighth frame,.,
and partly of that of the main frame, but moft of that
of the frame to which it is neareft : and hence the
plane of projection is fo far finiftied, that it only re^
mains to prove the feveral frames by water lines.
Another method of deferibing the frames in the'
body plan is by fweeps. In this method it is neceffary,
in the firft place, to deferibe the height of the breadth
lines, and the rifing of the floor, in the plane of eleva¬
tion. The half breadth lines are next to be deferibed in
the floor plan. The main frame is then to be deferi¬
bed by three or more fweeps, and giving it fuch a form’
as may be moft fuitable to the fervice the ihip is defign-
ed for. The lower, upper, and top-timber heights of
breadth, and the rifings of the floor, are to be fet upon
the middle line in the body plan, and the feveral half
breadths are then to be laid off on lines drawn through *
theffc:
262
SHIP-BUILDING.
Prelimma- thefe points perpendicular to the middle line. A mould
ry Pro¬
blems
may then be made for the mam frame, and laid upon
the feveral rifings, as in whole mouldings, explained in
Chapter V. with this difference, that here an under
breadth fweep is defcribed to pafs through the point
which limits the half breadth of the timber, the centre
of ivhich will be in the breadth line of that timber.
Ihe proper centres for all the frames being found, and
the arches defcribed, the bend mould muft be fo pla¬
ced on the riling line of the floor, that the back of it
may touch the back of the under breadth fweep. But
the general practice is, to defcribe all the floor fweeps
with compaffes, as well as the under breadth fweeps,
and to reconcile thefe two by a mould which is an arch
of a circle, its radius being the fame with that of the
reconciling fweep by which the midfhip frame was
formed. It is ufual for all the floor fweeps to be of
the fame radius; and in order to find their centres a line
is formed on the floor plan for the half breadth of the
floor. As this line cannot be defcribed on the furface
of a fhip, it is therefore only an imaginary line. In-
Jfead of it fome make u^e of a diagonal in the body
plane to limit the half breadth of the floor upon every
rifing line, and to ereft perpendiculars at the feveral in-
terfedfions, in the fame manner as for the midfhip frame.
After the fweeps are all defcribed, recourfe is had to
moulds, or fome fuch contrivance, to form the hollow of
the timbers, much in the fame manner as in whole
moulding 5 and when all the timbers arc formed, they
muff be proved by ribband and water lines, and altered,
if neceflary to make fair curves.
The preceding methods of defcribing the feveral
planes or fe&ions of a fhip being well underftood, it
will be a very eafy matter to conflruft draughts for
any propofed fhip : and as the above planes were de¬
scribed feparately and independent of each other, it is
therefore of little cenfequence which is firft defcribed.
In the following application, however, the plane of ele¬
vation will be fiifl: drawn, then part of the floor plan,
and laftly the body plan : and in connedting thefe plans
the moft rational and Ample methods will be employed.
Chap. IV. Application of the foregoing Rules to
the Cotijlruhlion of Ships.
oECT. I. To confruffi a Ship intended to carry a conf-
derab/e Burden in Proportion to her general Dimen-
fons, and to draw little Water.
Dimensions.
.Length between the wing tranfome and a per¬
pendicular from the rabbet of the ftem at
the height of breadth line
Main half breadth moulded
Half breadth at the height of breadth line at
the flern
Top-timber half breadth
Height of the ftem above the upper edge of
the keel - ' _ 1
Height of the breath line at the ftem
Height of the breadth line at the ftern
Upper height of breadth at the main frame
Lower height of breadth
Height of middle line of wales at the ftem
2
F. In.
80 o
11 o
7 6
10 6
17 o
13 6
12 3
7 4
5 10
10 o
Height of middle line of wales at the -main
frame
Height of middle line of w’ales at the ftern
Breadth of the wales
Height of top-timber at midftiips
—— —   —.— at ftern
F. In. Application
5 jq of the tore¬
ro f, 8oinS R-ules
to the Con-
1 V ftrr etion of
14 O Ships.
Draw the line ab (fig. 30.) ecjual to 80 feet, from Plate
a convenient fcale : divide it into as many equal parts CCCCXC.
plus one as there are to be frames, which let be 16, J0,
and through each point of divifion draw7 perpendiculars.
Make be equal to 17 feet, the perpendicular height of
the top of the ftem above the upper edge of the keel,
and defcribe the ftem by Prob. II. Make ad equal
to joy feet, the height of the middle line of the wales
at the ftern, and a e equal to the propoled rake of the
poft, which may be about 2 feet: join de; and draw
the line f g reprefenting the aft-fide of the poft. De¬
fcribe the counter and ftem by Problem VI. and Vlf,
Make 0^ equal to 14 feet, the top-timber height at
the main frame, and ih equal to 18 feet, the height at
the item ; and through the three points c, h, k, defcribe
the curve limiting the top-timbers by Problem I. Make
b d equal to 10 feet, the height of the middle line of
the wales at the ftem, and 0H equal to 6 feet 10
inches, the height at the main frame j and the curve
r/H d being delcribed will reprefent the middle line of
the vyales. At the diftance of lof inches on each fide
of this line draw two curves parallel thereto, and the
wales will be completed in this plan. Make b l equal
to 13-f feet, the height of the breadth line at the ftem j
am equal to 12-*- feet, the height at the ftern ; and 10
K0 equal to 5 feet 10 inches and 7 feet 4 inches re-
fpedtively ; and draw the upper breadth line /K wz and
lower breadth line /1 m. Krom the line a b lay down¬
wards the breadth of the keel, which may be about
one foot, and draw the line L t parallel to a b.
Let the line L ?•, which is the lower edge of the keel,
reprefent alfo the middle line of the floor plan. Pro¬
duce all the perpendiculars reprefenting the frames :
make 0 M (fig. 31.) equal to 11 feet, the main half Fig. 31,
breadth at midftiips \ through m (fig. 30.) draw the ^
line m N perpendicular to ab, and make />N equal to
7 i feet, and draw the main half breadth line NM r by
Problem IV. Defcribe alfo the top-timber half breadth
line POr, 00 being equal to io-\ feet, and form the
projedting part of the ftem q r s t.
In order that the top-timber line may look fair oft
the bow, and to prevent the foremoft top-timbers from
being too fliort, it is neccflary to lift or raife the fheer
from the round of the bow to the ftem. For this pur-
pole the following method is ufually employed : Pro¬
duce the circular theer before the ftem in the plane of
elevation at pleafure; then place a batton to the round
of the bow in the half breadth plan, and mark on it the
ftations of the fquare timbers and the fide of the ftem ;
apply the batton to the fheer plan, and place it to the
fheer of the fhip, keeping the ftations of the timbers on
the batton well with thofe on the Iheer plan for feve¬
ral timbers before dead-flat, where they will not alter;
then mark the other timbers and the flem on the fheer
line produced j through thefe points draw lines parallel
to the keel, to interfedf their correfpcnding timbers
and the ftem in the fheer plan : then a curve defcribed
thefe laft points will be the fheer of the fhip round
the
Application the bow, lifted as required : and the heights of the tim-
eoingSRules ^ers thus lengthened are to be transferred to the body
to the Con- Plan as before’.
ffru&ion of Draw the line AB (fig. 32.) equal to 22 feet, the
Ships, whole breadth ; from the middle of which draw the
1 perpendicular CD : make CE equal to half the thicknefs
cccclxxx’x. of the Pofl’ and CF eclual that of the ftem, and
Fi£, 32. frorn the points A, E, F, B, draw lines parallel to CD.
Make AG, EG each equal to 14 feet, the height at
the main frame, and draw the line GG parallel to AB.
Make GH, GH each equal to half afoot, the difference
between the main and top timber half breadths. From
A and B fet up the heights of the lower and upper
breadth lines to I and K, and draw the ftraight lines
IK? IK. Let CL be the rifing at the main frame, and
©5 0 the extremities of the floor timber. Hence, as
there are now five points determined in each half of
the main frame, it may be very eafily defcribed.
Make CM equal to L$, join M®, and draw the
other ribbands NO, PO. In order, however, to fim-
plify this operation, the reflilineal "diftancc ®I was
trifedled, and through the points of divifiou the lines
NO, PQ were drawn parallel to the floor ribband
M ®.
^ Take the diflance be (fig. 30.), and lay it off from
F to (fig. 32.) j alfo make Fb (fig. 32.) equal to
F u 30.) •, through b draw b c parallel to AB, and
equal to Fit (fig. 31.). In like manner take the
heights of each top-timber from fig. 30. and lay them
off from C towards D (fig. 32.) ; through thefe points
draw lines parallel to AB, and make them equal each to
each, to the correfponding half breadth lines taken from
the floor-plan : Then through the feveral points <7, c,
&c. thus found, draw a line a c H, which will be the
projedlion of the top-timber line of the fore body in the
body plan. Proceed in the fame manner to find the
top-timber line in the after body.
Transfer the height of the main-breadth line on the
ff-m bl (fig 30.), from F to 7/(fig. 32.). Transfer
abo the heights of the lower and upper breadth lines at
timber F (fig. 30.), namely, FW, FX, from F to e
and/(fig. 32.) ; through which draw the parallels eg,
fj!» them equal to FS (fig. 31.), and draw the
ftraight line g h. In this manner proceed to lay down
the portions of the extreme breadth at each frame, both
in the fore and in the after body in the body plan, and
draw the upper and lower breadth lines dh K, dg I in
the fore body and K 2', I i in the after body/ Hence
the portions of the feveral top-timbers contained between
the top-timber and main breadth lines may be eafily de¬
fcribed. It was before remarked that their forms were
partly arbitrary. The m:dihip top-timber has generally
a hollow, the form of which is left entirely to the artift,
though in fome fihips, especially fmall ones, it has none.
Pc is the common praftice to make a mould for this hol¬
low, eitner by a fweep or fome other contrivance, which
is produced confiderably above the top-timber line, in a
ftraight line or very near one. The midfhip top-timber
is formed by this mould, which is fo placed that it
breaks in four with the back of the upper breadth fweep.
1 he other top-timbers are formed by the fame mould,
obferving to place it fo that the ftraight part of it may
be parallel to the ftraight part of the midfhip timber,
and moved up or down, ftill keeping it in that direftion
till it juft touches the back of the upper breadth fweeo.
S H I P - B U I L D I N G.
Some conftru&ors begin at the after timber, after the
mould is made for the midfhip top-timber, becaufe they
think it eafier to keep the ftraight part of the mould pa¬
rallel to this than to the midihip timber j and by this
means the top fide is kept from wfinding. Others, again,
make a mark upon the mould where the breadth line of
the midihip timbei ciofles it, and with the fame mould
they form the after timber: this will occafion the mark
that was made on the mould when at the main frame to
fall below the breadth line of the after timber, and
therefore another mark is made at the height of the
breadth line at the after timber ; the ftraight part of the
mould is then laid obliquely acrofs the breadth lines of
the top-timbers in fuch a manner that it may interfeft
the breadth line of the midfhip timber at one of thefe
marks and the breadth line of the after timber at the
Ocher maik 5 then the feveral interfeFlions of the breadth
lines of the timbers are marked upon the mould ; which
muff now be fo placed in forming each timber, that the
proper mark may be applied to its proper breadth, and
it mu ft be turned about fo as juft to touch the upper
breadth fweep. Any of thefe methods may make a fair
fide, and they may be eafily proved by forming another
intermediate half breadth line.
The remaining parts of the frames may be de*ibed
by either of the methods laid down in Problems IX.
and X. . In order, however, to illuftrate this ftill far-
tuer,. it is thought proper to fubjoin another method of
forming the intermediate frames, the facility of which
wfill recommend it.
Take FZ (fig. 30.), and lay it from Fto £ (fig. 3 2.) 3
then deferibe the lower part of the foremoft frame/ ma¬
king it more or lefs full according as propofed ; and in¬
terfering the ribbands in the points /, m, n. Deferibe
alfo the aftermoft frame o,/>, y. Make «/3(fig. 30.)
equal to F r (fig. 32.), and produce it to a (fig. 31.) •
alfo draw y a and e£ (fig. 30.) equal to E r and E s
(fig. 32.) refpeaively ; and produce them to b and c :
Make I7 e, F/ i: R (fig. 31 •) equal to M /, N w, P n
(fig. 32.) each to each. Let alfo ® h, © /, © h, and
9 4 9 m, 9 n (fig. 31.) be made equal to M ©, NO,
PQ, and Mo, Ny, P/. (fig. 32.) j then through thefe
points trace the curves a enh lb, rfim c, and r R k np,
and they will be the projeftions of the ribbands in the
floor plane. Now transfer the feveral intervals of the
frames contained between the middle line and the rib¬
bands (fig. 31.) to the correfponding ribbands in the
body plan (fig. 32.). Hence there wfill be five points
given in each frame, namely, one at the lower breadth
line, one at each ribband, and one at the keel 3 and
confequently thefe frames may be eafily defcribed. In
order to exemplify this, let it be required to lay down
the frame E in the plane of projedlion. Take the in¬
terval E n (fig. 31.), and lay it from M to u (fig. 32).
Lay off alfo E v, E e (fig. 31.) from M to v and from
* to n (fig. 32.) 3 then through the points F, u, v, n
and the kwer breadth line deferibe a curve, and it
will be the reprefentation of the frame E in the body
plan. In like manner the other frames may be de¬
fcribed.
ihe ribbands may now be transferred from the body
plan to the plane ot elevation, by taking the feveral
heights of the interfe£iion of each ribband with the
frames, and laying them off on the correfponding frames
in the floor plan 3 and if the line drawn through thefe
peints.
Application
ot the fore¬
going Rules
to the Con-
ftruftion of
Ships.
s64.
SHIP-BUILDING.
Application points make a fair curve, it is prefumed that the curves
.t^e <0!’e’of the frames are rightly laid down in the body plan,
to1 the Con! Only one thefe ribbands, namely, the firft, is laid
ftruAion ofdown in fig. 30. Thefe curves may alfo be farther pro-
Ships, vcd, by drawing water lines in the plane of elevation,
' '  ‘ and in the body plan, at equal diftances from the upper
edge of the keel. Then the diftances between the mid¬
dle line of the body plan, and the feveral points of in-
terfeftion of thefe lines with the frames, are to be laid
off from the middle line in the floor plan upon the cor-
refponding frames j and if the line drawn through thefe
points form a fair curve, the frames are truly drawn in
the body plan.
In figs. 30. and 32. there are drawm four water lines
at any equal diftances from the keel, and from each
other. Thefe lines are then transferred from fig. 32. to
fig. 31. j and the lines pafling through thefe points make
fair curves.
The tranfoms are defcribed by Problem VIII. it is
therefore unneceffary to repeat the procefs. A rifing
line of the floor timbers is commonly drawm in the plane
of elevation.
As this is intended only as an introduftory example,
feveral particulars have therefore been omitted ; which,
however, will be exemplified in the following feftion.
Sect. IV. To defcribe the federal Plans of a Ship of
War propofed to carry 80 Guns upon two Decks.
As it is propofed in this place to fhow the method of
defcribing the plans of a (hip of a very confiderable fize,
it therefore feems proper to give the dimenfions of every
particular part neceffary in the delineation of thefe plans.
The feveral plans of this ftiip are contained in figs 33,
and 34. But as it would very much confufe the fi¬
gures to have a reference to every operation, and as the
former example is deemed a fufficient illuftration, the
letters of reference are upon thefe accounts omitted in
the figures.
Plate
CGCCXCI.
Figs- 33. &
34-
Principal Dimensions.
Ship Build- j^engt}s%—Length on the gun or lower deck
Cl s Kepoji tVi,. off navt nf tbf* rabbet nf the ftem
tory.
from the aft part of the rabbet of the ftem
to the aft part of the rabbet of the poft
Length from the foremoft perpendicular to
dead flat
Length from the foremoft perpendicular to
timber Y
Length from after perpendicular to timber 37
Room and fpace of the timbers
Length of the quarter-deck from the aft part
of the ftern -
Length of the forecaftle from the fore part of
the beak-head
Length of rouncfthoufe deck from the aft part
of the ftern
Heights.—Height of the gun or lower deck
from the upper edge of the keel to the
under fide of the plank at dead flat
Height of the gun or lower deck from the
upper edge of the keel to the under fide of
the plank at foremoft perpendicular
Height of the gun or lower deck from the
F. In.
182 ©
63 II|:
4
84-
4
3
2
95
49
51 8
24
26
upper edge of the keel to the under fide of
the plank at after perpendicular
Height from the upper fide of the gun-deck
plank to the under fide of the upper deck
plank, all fore and aft
Height from the upper fide of the"! apore
upper deck plank to the under fide >
of the greater deck plank j
Height to the under fide of forecaftle plank,
afore and abaft
Height from the upper fide of the! afore
quarter-deck plank to the under > , r.
fide of the round-houfe plank j a a
Height of the low^er edge of the main wales
at foremoft perpendicular
Height of the lowTer edge of the main wales
at dead flat
Height of the kwer edge of the main wales
at after perpendicular
Height of the lower edge of the channel
wales at ioremoft perpendicular
Height of the lower edge of the channel
wales at dead flat
Height of the low-er edge of the channel whales
at after perpendicular
Height of the upper fide of the wing tran-
fom -
Height of the touch of the lower counter at
the middle line
Height of the touch of the upper counter at
the middle line
Height of the top-timber line at the after part
of the ftern timber
Breadths.—Main wales in breadth from lower
to upper edge
Channel w-ales in breadth from loiver to up¬
per edge - - -
Waift rail in breadth
Diftance betw-een the upper edge of the chan¬
nel wales and the under edge of the waift
rail
Sheer rail in breadth
Diftance between the theer rail and the rail
above from timber 13 to the ftern
Diftance between the iheer rail and the rail
above from timber 7 to timber 11
Diftance between the ftieer rail and the rail
above from timber C to the forepart of
beak-head ...
And the faid rail to be in breadth
Plank ftieer to be in thicknefs
Centres of the inajls.—From the foremoft per¬
pendicular to the centre of the mainmaft on
the gun-deck
From the foremoft perpendicular to the centre
of the foremaft on the gun-deck
From the after perpendicular to the centre of
the mizenmaft on the gun-deck
Stem. The centre of the fweep of the ftem
abaft timber P - -
Height of ditto from the upper edge of the
keel -
Stem moulded , - -
F. In. Application
ot the fore-
06 a going Rule*
>5 to the Con-
ItruPtion of
Ships.
6 10
6 11
6 6
6 9
6 10
24
20
26
32
29
28
33
3<5
44
4
3
o
34 ®
4
2 9
o 6
2 5
1 4
1 2
o 6
o 2^
103
20
28
26 1
1 3.
Forera&it
l
SHIP-BUILDING.
Application Foremofl: part of the head afore the perpen-
of tbe forc- dictilar
fo'the Con- Height of ditto from the upper edge of the
ftru6tion of keel - - -
Ships Stern-poJ}.—Aft part of the rabbet afore the
•u., v—— perpendicular on the upper edge of the keel
Aft part of the port abaft the rabbet at the
upper edge of the keel
Aft part of the port abaft the rabbet at the
wing tranfom -
Stern port fore and aft on the keel
Ditto fquare at the head
Counters.—The touch of the lower counter at
the middle line, abaft the aft part of the
wing tranfom - . -
Round aft of the lower counter
Round up of the lower counter
The touch of the upper counter at the middle
line,, abaft the aft part of the wing tran¬
fom -
Round aft of the upper counter
Round up of the upper counter
Aft part of the (tern-timber at the middle
line, at the height of the top timber line,
abaft the aft part of the wing tranfoni
F. In.
2 4
S8 3
3 4
265
12
9
3i
10
afore
abaft
Round aft of the wing tranfom
Round up of the wing tranfom
Draught of water.—Load draught of"
water from the upper edge of the
keel
Channels.—Foremoft end of the fore channel
afore timber R -
The channel to be in length
And in thicknefs at the outer edge
The dead eyes to be 12 in number, and in dia¬
meter -
Foremod end of the main channel afore tim¬
ber 9 - - .
The channel to be in length
And in thicknefs at the outer edge
The dead eyes to be 14 in number, and in
diameter
Foremoft end of the mizen-channel abaft tim¬
ber 27 - - -
The channel to be in length
And in thicknefs at the outer edge
The dead eyes to be 7 in number, and in dia¬
meter - - -
F. In. Applieati«n
q g of the fore-
, goin» Rule*
® iiho the Con-
ftmrtion of
Ships.
20
20
I O
37 o
o 4i
o 10
38 o
O 4-5
2 4
20 O
o 4
1 9
Dimensions of the feveral Parts of the Bodies.
Tore Bodij.
Lower height of breadth
Upper height of breadth
Height of the top-timber line
Height of the riling line *
Height of the cutting down
Main half breadth
Top-timber half breadth
Half breadth of the riling
Length of the lower breadth fvveeps
Fir ft diagonal line
Second ditto
Third ditto
Fourth ditto
Fifth ditto - - .
Sixth ditto - *
Seventh ditto - - .
Timbers Names.
Ft. In.
22 6
24 10
37 5
o o
2 3*
24 i’j
20 II
8 7
'9
7
*3
20
23 4r
24 8
24
C
Ft. In.
22 6
24 IO
37 7
o 54-
2 34
24 54
20 10
8 4
18 9
7 8-1
13 84
19 11
23 44
24 8
24 i4
Ft. In.
22 7
24 IO
38 O
3 10
2 34
24 44
20 9
6 54
f3 4i
19 2
23 0
24 44
24 o
L j P | 'J
W
Ft.
23
24
3 8
9
2
24
20
*7
7
12
*7
21
23
In.
O
104
5
10 !i8
8
o4
6
9
3
1
1
7
84
3
23
20
5
Ou
r5
6
10
*5
18
54 21
In.
I I
34
I
6
10
24
o
7
tfide
II
3
3
1
11
24
23 9
Ft.
25
26
39 10
22 10
6
20
18
14
3
7
11
*7
4
2
94
Ft. In.
26 IO
44
4
44 27
40
17 o
17 10
12 7
4 6
8 34
11 5
13 84
Ft. In,
28 8
29
40
11
16
20 1 of-18 64
* Rifing height 11 feet 10 inches at dead flat, from which all the other rifings muft be fet off.
12 o
3 44
6 o
7
14 7
VoL. XIX, Part I.
LI
266
SHIP -BUILDING.
After Body.
Timbers Names.
*3
J7
21
25
29
33
35
37
Lower height of breadth
Upper ditto
Height of the top-timber line
Height of the cutting down
Height of the rifing
Main half breadth
Half breadth of the rifing
Top-timber half breadth
Topfides half breadth
Length of lower breadth fvveeps
Firfl: diagonal
Second ditto
Third ditto
Fourth ditto
Fifth ditto
Sixth ditto
Seventh ditto
Ft. In.
22 6
24 10
37 5
2 3i
o 24
24 5i
8 6
20 11
19 2
7 9
13 9
20 o
23 4l
24 8
Ft. In.
22 6
24 10
37 5
2 si
o 8
24 4!
8 3
20 10
19 2
7 8;
13 8i
19 Hi
23 3
24 7
Ft.
22
24
37
2
1
24
7
20
In.
6
10
6
S'?
9i
4i
9
9i
Ft. In.
20 7
24 II
37 10
2 3i
3 6*
24 3i
6 10
20 9
19 o
7 7
13 6
x9 74
23
24
18
7
13
J9
22
24
7
5
1
o
6
Ft.
22
25
38
2
6
24
5
20
x7
7
12
18
21
23
In.
9
1
3
4
o
I
3i
7
1
2i
6
1
11
6i
Ft.
23
25
38
2
10
23
2
20
*9
16
6
11
16
20
22
In.
Oi
4
11
7i
1
8
3
7
o
7
2
6
3
3i
23 9*
Ft.
27
25
39
3
*7
23
2
x9
18
H
5
9
J4
18
20
23
In. Ft.
7i 24
8
8
5
o
oi'
6
5
4
5
9
7
2
o-
26
40
5
In.
6
3
6
24
Ft.
25
27
41
8
21 10
Outfidp
l8 2
J7
12
4
7
11
*5
6\ 18
o
5
7
7
5i
3i
2
8i
In.
ioi
Ft.
26
27
42
16
15
9
2
4
7
11
*4
18
20
8
10
ioi
10
8-i
8^
4
4
8i 16
o !x8
In.
9t
9
o
ioi
11
11
81
1
5
7
5
o
11
Ft. In.
28 3
28 8
42 6
15 oi
J4 3
4 8
o 7
O II
I
6
o
8
8i
Diagonal Lines for both the Fore and After Bodies.
Fore and After Bodies.
Height up the middle line
Dittance from the middle line on the bafe line
Height up the fide line
Names of the Diagonal Lines.
ill
2d
Ft.
6 11
4 8
In. Ft.
I I
In.
4
3d
Ft. In
5i
15 6
4th 5th 6th 7th
Ft.
20
In
8
9v
Ft. In.Ft
31
In.
23 5i 27 5
6 7
12 74
Ft. In.
43 9
S2 81
I. Of the Sheer Draught or Plane of Elevation.
Fig 33- Draw a ftraight line (fig. 33.) to reprefent the up¬
per edge of the keel, eredt a perpendicular on that end
to the right, and from thence fet off 182 feet, the length
on the gun-deck, and there ereft another perpendicular j
that to the right is called the foremof perpendicular, and
the other the after one : upon thefe two perpendiculars
all the foremoft and aftermoft heights muff be fet off,
which are expreffed in the dimenfions.
Then fet off the diftance of the main frame or dead
flat from the foremoft perpendicular, and at that place
eredt a third perpendicular, which muft be diftingufthed
by the charadter 0. From dead flat the room and
fpace of all the timbers muft be fet off; but it will on¬
ly be neceffary to eredl a perpendicular at every frame
timber ; which in the fore body are called deadfat, A,
C, E, &c. and in the after body (2), 1, 3, 5, &c. :
hence the diftance between the frame perpendiculars wall
be double the room and fpace expreffed in the dimen¬
fions. Then fet off the heights of the gun-deck afore
at midfliip or dead flat, and abaft from the upper fide
of the keel ; and a curve deferibed through thefe three
points will be the upper fide of the gun-deck. Set off
the thicknefs of the gun-deck plank below that; and
another curve being drawn pai'allel to the former, the
gun-deck will then be deferibed at the middle line of
the ftreer plan.
The centie of the ftem is then to be laid dowm by
means of the table of dimenfions ; from which centre,
with an extent equal to the neareft diftance of the upper
edge of the keel, deferibe a circle upwards : deferibe
alio another circle as much without the former as the
ftem is moulded. Then fet off the height of the head
of the ftem, with the diftance afore the perpendicular,
and there make a point ; and within that fet off the
moulding of the ftem, and there make another point :
from this laft mentioned point let a line pafs downwards,
interfering the perpendicular at the height of the gun-
deck, and breaking in fair with the inner circle, and
the after part of the ftern is drawn. Draw another line
from the foremoft point downwards, parallel to the for¬
mer, and breaking in fair with the outer circle ; then
the whole ftem will be formed, except the after or low¬
er end, which cannot be determined till hereafter.
The ftern-poft muft be next formed. Set off on the
upper edge of the keel a fpot for the aft part of the
rabbet taken from the dimenfions, and from that for¬
ward fet off another point at the diftance of the thick¬
nefs
S H I P-B U
Applkationnefs of the plank of the bottom, which is four inches and
of the fore a jiajf. an^ from this laft-mcntioned point draw a line
fo01theRConSuPwards interfedling the perpendiculars at the height of
ftrudtion of'he lower deck 5 then fet up the perpendicular the
Ships, height of the wing tranfom, and draw a level line, and
' " where that line interfedls, the line firft drawrn wall be
the aft fide of the wing tranfom 5 on the upper part of
the middle line fet olf from that place the diftance of
the aft fide of the ftern-polt 3 fet off alfo the diftance of
the after part from the rabbet on the upper edge of the
the keel, and a line drawn through thefe two points
will be the aft fide of the poll. A line drawn parallel
to the firft drawn line at the diftance of four inches and
a half, the thicknefs of the plank on the bottom, will be
the aft fide of the rabbet: and hence the ftern-poft is de-
fcribed, except the head, which will be determined af¬
terwards.
From the dimenfions take the feveral heights of the
upper deck above the gun-deck, afore, at midftiip, and
abaft, and fet them olf accordingly 3 through thefe
points defcribe a curve, which will be the under fide of
the upper deck 3 defcribe alfo another curve parallel
thereto, at the difiance of the thicknefs of the plank,
and the upper deck will be then reprefented at the
middle line of the fhip.
Set off the height of the lower counter, at the mid¬
dle line, from the upper edge of the keel, and drawr a
horizontal line with a pencil 3 then on the pencil line
fet off the difiance the touch of the lorver counter is
abaft the aft fide of the wing tranfom : from this point
to that where the fore part of the rabbet of the ftern-
poft interfedfts the line drawn for the upper part of the
wing tranfom, draw a curve at pleafure, which curve
wall repreient the louver coitnter at the middle line.
The height of the upper counter is then to be fet off
from the upper edge of the keel, and a horizontal line
is to be drawn as before, fetting off the diftance the
touch of the upper counter is abaft the aft fide of the
wing tranlbm j and a curve deferibed from thence to
the touch of the lowrer counter will form the upper
counter at the middle line. •
Both counters being formed at the middle line, the
upper part of the ftern timber above the counters is to
be deferibed as follows : On the level line drawn for
the upper fide of the wing tranfom fet off the diftance
of the aft fide of the ftern timber at the middle line
from the aft fide of the wing tranfom, at the height of
the top-timber line, and erefl a perpendicular : then up¬
on this perpendicular, from the upper edge of the keel,
fet off the height at the middle line of the top-timber
line at the after fide of the ftern timber 3 through this
point draw a ftraight line to the touch of the upper
counter, and the upper part of the ftern timber will be
deferibed.
As the ftern rounds two ways, both up and aft, the
ftern timber at the fide xvill confequently alter from
that at the middle line, and therefore remains to be re¬
prefented. Take the round up of the upper counter
from the dimenfions, and fet it belorv the touch at the
middle, and with a pencil draw a level line 3 take alfo
the round aft, and fet it forward from the touch on the
touch line, and fqnare it down to the pencil line laft
drawn, and the point of interfeflion will be the touch
of the upper counter at the fide. In the fame manner
find the touch of the lower counter 3 and a curve, fi-
I L D I N G. 267
milar to that at the middle line, being deferibed from Application
the one touch to the other, will form the upper counteroi the^rf*
, _ , 7 11 froinp- Rules
at the fine. . _ . to the Con-
Take the round up of the wing tranfom, and fet it itrudtion of
off below the line before drawn for the height of the Ships,
wing tranfom, and draw another horizontal line in pen- v r
cil : then take the round aft of the wing tranfom, and
fet it forward on the upper line from the point repre-
fenting the aft fide of the wing tranfom 3 fquare it down,
to the lower line, and the interledlion will be the touch
of the wing tranfom : then a curve, fimilar to that at'
the middle line, being drawn from the touch of the
wing tranfom to the touch of the lower counter at the
fide, will be the lower counter at the fide. Draw a
line from the upper counter upwards, and the whole
ftern timber at the fide will be reprefented. Bui as the
ftraight line drawn for the upper part of the fide tim¬
ber ftiould not be paiallel to that at the middle line, its
rake is therefore to be determined as follows.
Draw a line at pleafure, on which fet off the breadth
of the ftern at the upper counter 3 at the middle of this
line fet off the round aft of the upper counter, then
through this point and the extremities of the ftern de¬
fcribe a curve. Now take the breadth of the ftern at
the top-timber line, and through the point where that
breadth will interfedt the curve for the round aft of the
ftern draw a line parallel to that firft drawn, and the di¬
ftance from the line laft drawn to the curve at the mid¬
dle of the line is the diftance that the fide timber muft
be from the middle line at the height of the top-timber
line.
The Iheer is to be deferibed, which is done by fet¬
ting off the heights afore, at midfhips, and abaft 3 and-
a curve deferibed through thefe three points will be the
fheer. But in order that the fheer may correfpond
exadfly with the dimenfions laid down, it will be necef-
fary to proceed as follows : The perpendicular repre-
fenting timber dead flat being already drawn, fet off
from that the dillances of the other frame timbers,
which is double the room and fpace, as the frames are
only every other one 3 and ereft perpendiculars, writing
the name under each : then on each of thefe perpen¬
diculars fet off the correfponding heights of the top-
timber line taken from the table of dimenfions for con-
firlifting the bodies 3 and through thefe points a curve
being deferibed, will reprefent the fbeer of the {hip or
top-timber line agreeable to the dimenfions.
The quarter-deck and forecafile are next to be de¬
feribed, which may be done by taking their refpeftive
heights and lengths from the dimenfions, and deferibing
their curves. In the fame manner alfo, the round-
houfe may be drawn. The decks being deferibed re-
prefenting their heights at the middle, it is then ne-
ceffary to reprefent them alfo at the fide. For this
purpofe take the round of the decks from the dimen¬
fions, and fet them off below' the lower line drawn for
the middle3 and a curve deferibed both fore and aft, ob-
ferving to let it be rather quicker than the former, will
be the reprefentation of the decks at the fide.
The ports come next under confideration. In the
placing of them due attention muft be paid, fo as to
preferve ftrength 3 or that they fhall be fo difpofed as
not to weaken the fhip in the lead, which is often done;
by cutting off principal timbers, placing them in too
large openings, having too fhort timbers by the fide of
L 1 2 them,
288 S H I P - B U
^ppi:ca‘:or*them, &c. The frames reprefented by the lines al-
'oin'eKides^ea<^y drawn mud be firft confulted. Then with a
V)1 the Cor!- pencil draw two curves, for the lower and upper parts
itmdtion ofof the lower deck polls, parallel to the line reprefent-
Ships. ing the low’er deck ; the dillances of thefe lines from
^,e are t0 bc taken from the dimenfions, obfer-
ving, however, to add to thefe heights the thicknefs of
the deck, as the deck line at the lide reprefents the
under part of the deck.
The foremolt port is then to be deferibed, cbferving
to place it as far aft as to give fufficient room for the
manger : the molt convenient place will therefore be
to put it- between the frames R and T, and equally di-
dant from each. It will then be placed in the moll con¬
spicuous point of ftrength, as it will have a long top-
timber on the aft fide and a long fourth futtock on the
lore fide of it. The fecond port may be placed in like
manner between the next two frames, ■which will be
be equally well Situated for ftrength a-, the former ; and
by proceeding in this manner, the ports on the gun deck
may alfo be placed, taking care to have two frames be¬
tween every two ports, all fore and aft.
The upper deck ports are then to be deferibed 5 and
in order to difpofe of them in the ftrongeft fituation
polfible, they mull be placed over the middle between
the gun-deck ports, fo that every frame in the fhip will
run up to the top of the fide, by their coming between
a gun and upper deck port; and every port will be
between the frames, which will in a great meafure con¬
tribute towards the ftrength of the (hip. With regard
to the ports on the quarter deck, It is not of fuch ma¬
terial confequence if they cut the head of the frame, as
in placing them the fitualion of the dead eyes mull be
confidered, placing a port where there is a vacancy be¬
tween the dead eyes large enough to admit of one ; ob¬
serving always to place them as nearly as poftible at
equal diftances from each other ; and where it happens
that they do not fall in the wake of a frame, then that
frame muft by all means be carried up to the top of the
fide.
The neceffary length of the round houfe being de¬
termined in the dimenfions, it may be fetoff; obferving,
however, to let it be no longer than is juft fufficient
for the necefiary accommodations, as the ftiorter the
round-houfe the works abaft may be kept lower, and a
low fnug ftern is always accounted the handfomeft.
Then fet off the round of the deck at the foremoft end,
below the line drawn ; the deck at the fide may be de¬
feribed by another curve drawn quite aft. Now, from
the point for the round of the deck to the ftern-timber,
draw a curve parallel to the top-timber line, and that
will be the, extreme height of the top of the fide abaft,
which height continues to range fair along to the fore¬
moft end of the round-houfe, and at that place may
have a fall about 14 inches, which may be turned off
with a drift fcrpll. At the fore part of the quarter¬
deck, the topfide may have a rife of 14 inches, which
may alfo be turned off with a fcroll. But as the raifing
of the topfide only 14 inches at that place will not be
fufficient to unite with the heights, abaft, it will there¬
fore be neceffary to raife 14 inches more upon that,
and break it off with a fcroll inverted c-n the firft fcroll,
and continue thefe two lines, parallel to the top timber
line, to the diftance of about feven feet aft. At the
foxemoft end of the round-houfe there is a break of 14,
I L D I N G.
inches already mentioned ; and in order to make that tpp'irafkn
part uniform with the breaks at the foremoft end of the'ft .the fo,e-
quarter-deck, there muft be fet down 14 inches more
below the former; and at thefe two heights continue two m-uoHoriVf"
curves parallel to the top-timber line, from the aft part Ships,
of the ftern to the ends of the two curves already drawn '——v~—■ J
at the foremoft end of the quarter-deck. If they ftiould
happen not to break in fair with them, they muft be
turned off with a round ; but to make them appear
more handfome, the lower line may be turned off with a
fcroll. Thefe lines being drawn will reprefent the up¬
per edges of the rails.
The height of the top fide at the fore part of the flftp
muft next be confidered ; which, in order to give proper
height for the forecaftle, muft have a rife there of 14
inches, the break being at the after end of the fore¬
caftle, and turned off as before. But as this part of
the thip is ftill confiderably lower than the after part, it
will be neceffary to give another of eight inches upon
the former, and turn it oft' with a fcroll inverted. Hence
this part of the fhip will nppeajr more uniform to the al¬
ter part.
The finifhing parts, namely the wales, ftern, head,
rails, &c. remain to be deferibed. The wales may be
firft drawn ; and as the ftrength of the ftiip depends
very much on the right placing of them, great care
muft therefore be taken that they may be as little as
poffible rvounded by tbe low'er deck ports, and to placed
that the lower deck bolts fliall bolt in them, and
alfo that they come as near as poffible on the broadeft
part of the fhip. In the firft place, therefore, the
height of breadth lines muft be chofen for our guide.
Thefe heights of breadth are to be taken from the di¬
menfions, and fet off on the refpedfive frames, and curves
drawn through thefe points will be the upper and lower
heights of breadth lines. The height of the wales
may be now’ determined ; which in general is in fuch a
manner that the upper height of breadth line comes
about fix Indies below their upper edge, and the wales
are then placed right upon the breadth lines. Take the
heights and breadths of the wales afore, at midfhips,
and abaft, from the table of dimenfions ; draw curves
through the points thus found, and the wales will be
reprefented.
The channel wales are then to be defciibed. They
are principally intended to ftrengthen the top fide, and
mufl be placed between the lower and upper deck ports;
and the lower end of them at midihips fhould be placed
as low as poffible, in order to prevent them from being
cut by the upper deck ports afore and abaft. Take
their heights and breadths from the dimenfions ; lay
them off, and deferibe curves through the correfpond-
ing points, and the channel wales will be reprefented.
Lay off the dimenfions of the wafte rail found in the
table ; and through the points draw a line parallel to the
top timber line all fore and aft. This rail terminates
the lower part of the paint work on the top fide, as all
the work above this nxl is generally painted, and the
work of the top fide below it payed with a varnith, ex¬
cept the main wales, which are always payed wdlh pitch.
Take the draught of w7ater from the dimenfions, and
dra-w the load water-line, which is always done in green.
Divide the diflance between the load water-line and the
upper edge of the keel into five equal parts, and through
thefe points draw four more water-lines,
itet
.Application
of
S H I P - 3 U
Set off the centres of the mafts on the gun-deck;
010°eRule?t‘r rj^e raay hkewife be taken from the dimenfions.
to'the Cot! ^et all° ^ e centre °f the bovvfprit, letting it be
ftnwftion of four feet from the deck at the after part of the ftein,
Ships, which will give fufficient height for a light and airy fi-
' ^ gure.
Drawr the knight-heads fo as to be fufficlently high
above the bovvfprit to admit of a chock between them
for the better fecurky of the bowfprit. The timber
heads may alfo be drawn above the forecahle, obferving
to place the molt convenient for the timbers of the frame,
feeing thofe which come over the upper deck ports, as
they may be allowed long enough to form handfome
heads. There fliould be one placed abaft the cat-head,
to which the foremoft block is to be bolted, and there
may be two ports on the forecaftle formed by them,
and placed where it is molt convenient to the dead
eyes.
Defcribe the channels, taking their lengths and
thickneffes from the dimenfions, and place their upper
edges well with the lower edge of the llieer rail. The
dead eyes may then be drawn, obferving to place them
in fuch a manner that the chains may not interfere with
the ports •, and the preventer plates mult all be placed
on the channel wales, letting them be of fuch a length
that the preventer bolt at each end may bolt on each edge
of the channel wales. It muil alfo be obferved to
give each of the chains -and preventer plates a pro¬
per rake, that is, to let them lie in the direclion of
the fhrouds, which may be done in the following man¬
ner : Produce the malt upwards, upon which fet off
the length of the malt to the. lower part of the head ;
thefe It raight lir.es drawn from that point through the
centre of each dead eye will give the direction of the
ch ains and preventer braces.
The fenders may be then drawn, obferving to place
them right abrealt of the main hatchway, in order to
prevent the {hip’s fide from being hurt by whatever
may be hoilled on board. The proper place for them
will therefore be at timber 3 ; and the diitance between
them may be regulated by the diflance between the
ports. The chelt tree may alfo be drawn, which muft
be placed at a proper diflance abaft the foremaft, for
the conveniency of hauling home the fore tack. It
may therefore be drawn at the aft fide of timber C
from the top of the fide down to the upper edge of
the channel wales ; and the fenders may reach from the
top of the fide down to the upper edge of the main
wales. As the fenders and cheft-tree ate on the out-
fiJe of the planks, wales, &c. the lines reprefenting
the wales, &c. fhould not be drawn through them.
Draw the fleps on the fide, which mull be at the fore
part of the main drift or break, making them as long
as the diftance between the upper and lower deck ports
will admit of. They may be about fix inches afunder,
and bve inches deep, and continued from the top of the
fide down to the middle of the main wales.
In order to dtferibe the head, the height of the beak-
head mud he firit determined, which may be about two
feet above the upper deck. At that place draw a hori¬
zontal line, upon which fet off the length of the beak-
head, which may be 7^ feet abaft the fore part of the
ftem, and from thence fquare a line up to the fore-
enfi’e deck ; which line wnll reprefent the aft part of the
beak head, and will likewife terminate the foremaft end
I L D I N G. 2$g
of the forecafile. The length of the head may nftw be Application
   AV.* aaw Lilt 1JV.CIU JIJ ajT 1UJ W UC
determined, which by the proportions will be found to0^.1^2 fore
be 15 feet fix inches from the fore part of the fiem. Set
it oft from the fore part of the ftem, and ereft a per- ftruAion of
pendicular, which will be the utmoft limits of the figure Ships,
forward : then t?.ke the breadth of the figure from the
proportions, which is four feet four inches, and fet it off
forward ; and another perpendicular being drawn will
Ihow the utmoft extent of the hair bracket forward, or
alt part of the figure. Then draw the lower cheek, let¬
ting the upper edge be well with the upper edge of the
main wales, and the after end ranging well with the
beak-head line } fet off the depth of it on the ftem 5
which is about x 1 inches, and let a curved line pafs
from the after end through the point on the ftem, and
to break in fair with the perpendicular fnft drawn for
the length of the head, the fore part of the curve will
then reprefent the pofition of the figure.
The upper cheek, may next be drawn ; but, in order to
know the exaft place of it on the ftem, the place of the.
main rail muft firft be fet off on the ftem, the upper-
edge of which may be kept on a level with the beak-
head 5 then fetling off the depth of it below that, the
place for the upper cheek may be determined, letting
it be exactly in the middle between that and the lower
cheek ; then, by drawing curves for the upper and
lower edges of the cheek from the after end parallel to
the lower cheek, to break in fair with the perpendicular,
drawn for the back of the figure : then the upper cheek
vyill be formed. The upper part may run in a ferpen-
tine as high as where the Ihoulder of the figure is fuppo-
fed to come, at which place it may be turned oft' with
a fcroil. The diftance from the fcroll to the heel of the
figure is called the hair bracket.
I he head of the block may be formed by continuing
the line at the breaft round to the top of the hair-brac¬
ket, obferving to keep the top of it about fix inches
clear of the under fide of the bowfprit.
Having the diftance fet off on the ftem for placing the
main rail, it may next be deferibed, keeping the bag of
it as level as poflible for the conveniency of the gratings,
and letting the foremoft end rife gradually according to
the rile of the upper cheek and hair bracket, and may
turn off on the round of the fcroll before drawn for the
hair-bracket. To form the after end, fet off the lize
of the head of the rail abaft the beak-head line, and
erect a perpendicular •, then defcribe the arch of a circle
from that perpendicular, to break in fair with the lower
fide of the rail in the middle, and alfo another from the
beak-head perpendicular, to break in fair with the upper
fide ot the rail at the middle, obferving to continue the
head of it fufficiently high to range with the timber
heads above the forecaftle.
I he bead timbers are nexttobe drawn, placing the ftem n
timber its own thicknefs abaft the ftem, and the foremoft
muft be fo placed that the fore fide may be up and down
with the heel of the block or figure, which has not yet
been fet off.. Take therefore the diftance from the *■
breaft; to the heel on a fquare w’hich is feven feet, and
erefl a perpendicular from the lower part of the lower ■
cneek to the lowTer part of the upper cheek *, which per¬
pendicular will terminate the foremoft end of the lowers
cheek and the heel of the figure, and will alfo termi¬
nate the lower end of the hair-bracket: then, by conti¬
nuing the fame perpendicular from the upper part cH
the v
270 SHIP-BU
Application the lower deck to the under part of the main-rail, the
'ujin^Rults^0re t-^ie forem°h head timber will be defcribed ;
to'the Con- anc^ ^7 letting off its thicknefs aft, the other fide may
ftruiftion tf be drawn. The middle head timber may be fpaced be-
Ships. tween the two former ones •, and there may alfo be one
1    timber placed abaft the ftem, at a diftance from the
ffem, equal to that between the others, and the lower
end of it may itep on the upper edge of the lower rail.
To defcribe the middle and lower rails, divide the
diftance between the lower part of the main rail and the
upper part of the upper cheek equally at every head
timber j and curves being defcribed through thefe points
will form the middle and lower rails. The alter end of
the lower rail muft terminate at the after edge of the
after head timber.
The cat-head ought to be reprefented in fuch a man¬
ner as to come againft the aft fide of the head of the main
rail, to rake forward four inches in a foot, and to fteeve
up 54- inches in a foot, and about one foot fix inches
fquare. The lower part of it comes on the plank of the
deck at the fide, and the fupporter under it muft form a
fair curve to break in with the after end of the middle
rail.
The hawfe holes muft come between the cheeks, which
is the moft convenient place for them; but their place
fore and aft cannot be exaftly determined until they are
laid down in the half-breadth plan.
The knee of the head is to project from the breaft of
the figure about twro inches $ and particular care muft be
taken that in forming it downwards it be not too full, as
it is then liable to rub the cable very much : it may there¬
fore have no more fubftance under the lowTer cheek at the
heel of the figure than is juft fufficient to admit of the
bobftay holes, and may be 34 feet diftant from the ftem
at the load wrater-line, making it run in an agreeable fer-
pentine line from the breaft down to the third water
line, where it may be 14 feet from the ftem. By con¬
tinuing the fame line downwards, keeping it more di¬
ftant from the ftem as it comes down, the gripe wall be
formed. The lower part of it muft break in fair with
the under part of the falfe keel \ and the breadth of the
gripe at the broadeft place will be found by the pro-
pot tions to be 44 feet. As the aft part of the gripe
is terminated by the fore foot, or foremoft end of the
keel, it will now be proper to finiftt that part as fol¬
lows : From the line reprefenting the upper edge of the
keel fet down the depth of the keel, through which
draw a line parallel to the former, and it will be the
low’er edge of the keel. From that point, where the
aft fide of the ftem is diftant from the upper edge of
the keel by a quantity equal to the breadth of the keel
at midfhips, erect a perpendicular, which wall limit the
foremoft end of the keel 5 and the after or lower end of
the ftem may be reprefented by fetting off the length of
the fcarf from the foremoft end of the keel, which may
be fix feet. Set down from the line reprefenting the
lower edge of the keel the thicknefs of the falfe keel,
which is feven inches ; and a line drawn through that
point parallel to the lorver edge of the keel will be the
under edge of the falfe keel, the foremoft end of which
may be three inches afore the foremoft end of the main
keel.
The head being now7 finifhed, proceed next to the
fiern, the fide and middle timbers of which are already
drawn. 1 From the fide timber fet off forward 14 feet,
4
I L D I N G.
the length of gallery, and draw a pencil line parallel to Applicatlort
the fide timber 5 draw' alio a line to interfedt the touch ot .t*1e^or,e*
of the upper counter at the fide, producing it forwards
parallel to the ftieer as far ais the pencil line firft drawn jftiuftion of
and this line will reprelent the upper edge of the gal- Ships,
lery rim. From which fet dowm eight inches, the " ' v ‘
breadth of the gallery rail, and draw7 the lower edge
of the rail. At the diftance of eight inches from the
fore fide of the fide timber diaw a line parallel thereto
and from the point of interfedion of this line with the
upper edge of the gallery rim, draw a curve to the
middle timber parallel to the touches of the upper coun¬
ter, which line will reprefent the upper edge of the up¬
per counter rail as it appears on the fheer draught.
The lower edge of this rail may be formed by fetting
off its depth from the upper edge. In the fame manner
the lower counter rail may be defcribed : then take the
diftance betw'een that and the upper counter rail, and
fet it off below the rim rail ; and hence the rail that
comes to the lower ftool may be drawm, keeping it pa¬
rallel to the rim rail. Underneath that, the lower fi-
nifhing may be formed, making it as light and agreeable
as pofiible.
Set off from the middle timber on the end of the
quarter-deck the projedtion of the balcony, wftiich may
be about two feet, and draw a line with a pencil paral¬
lel to the middle timber. On this line fet off a point
14 inches below the under fide of the quarter-deck,
from which draw a curve to the fide timber parallel to
the upper counter rail, which curve will reprelent the
lower fide of the foot fpace rail of the balcony as it ap¬
pears in the {beer draught.
Take the diftance between the point of interfeftion
of the upper edge of the upper counter with the mid¬
dle line, and the point of interfedlion of the under fide
of the foot fpace rail w7ith the middle line, which fet
up on a perpendicular from the upper edge of the rim
rail at the foremoft end. Through this point draw7 a
line parallel to the rim rail to interfedf the lowrer part
of the foot fpace rail, and this line will reprefent the
low7er edge of the rail that comes to the middle ftool,
and will anfvver to the foot fpace rail. Then between
this line and the rim rail three lights or failles may be
drawn, having a muntin or pillar between each light of
about 14 inches broad, and the low7er gallery will be
finiftied. Set off the depth of the middle ftool rail
above the line already drawn for the lower edge, and
the upper edge may be drawn. Then fet off the fame
depth above the curve drawn for the lowTer edge of the
foot fpace rail, and the upper edge of that rail may then
be drawn.
The quarter-piece muft be next defcribed, the heel
of which muft ftep on the after end of the middle ftool.
Draw a line with a pencil parallel to the middle timber,
and at a diftance therefrom, equal to the projedlion of
the balcony. Upon this line fet up from the round-
houfe deck the height of the upper part of the ftern or
taff rail, which may be four feet above the deck. At
that height draw with a pencil a horizontal line, and
from its interfedlion with the line firft drawn defcribe a
curve to the middle ftool rail, obferving to make the
lower part of this curve run nearly parallel to the fide
timber, and the low7er part about three inches abaft the
fide timber •, and this curve vdll reprefent the aft fide of
the quarter-piece at the outfide. There fet off the thick-
SHIP-BUILDING.
Application nefs gf the quarter-piece, which is one foot fix inches,
^oin^Rul'~ a^ore t^le curve already drawn j and another curve be-
foTh-= Con- defcrihed parallel to it from the lower part to the
ftrudHon of top of the fiieer, and the quarter-piece at the outfide
Ships. will be reprefented. On the horizontal line drawn for
v" ■■■' the upper part of the tafF-rail fet off forward the thick-
nefs of the tafF-rail, which is one foot; then draw a
curve down to the head of the quarter-piece parallel to
the firfl, and that part of the taff-rail will be defcribed.
Infiead of a fair curve, it is cufiomary to form the upper
part of the taff-rail with one or two breaks, and their
curves inverted. Either way may, however, be ufed
according to fancy.
Set off the depth of the taff-rail, which may be about
3^- feet, on the line drawn for the projection ; from the
upper part, and from this point, defcribe a curve as low
as the heel of the quarter-piece, and about five inches
abaft it at that place ; obferving to make it run nearly
parallel to the after edge of the quarter-piece ; and the
after part of the quarter-piece, wrhich comes neareft to
the fide, will be reprefented.
Set up on the line drawn for the projection of the
balcony the height of the upper part of the balcony or
bread rail, which is 3^ feet from the deck ; fet off the
thicknefs of the rail below that, and defcribe the balco¬
ny, keeping it parallel to the foot fpace rail, and termi¬
nating it at the line drawn for the after part of the quar¬
ter-piece neareft the fide ; and the whole balcony will
then be reprefented.
The upper gallery is then to be defcribed. In order
to this, its length muff be determined, which may be
11 feet» Set off this diftance from the fide timber for¬
ward with the fheer •, and at this point draw a line pa¬
rallel to the fide timber, which line will reprefent the
fore part of the gallery. Then take the diftance be¬
tween the upper part of the foot fpace rail and the up¬
per part of the breaft rail on a perpendicular, and fet it
off on a perpendicular from the upper part of the middle
itool rail on the line drawn for the fore part of the gal¬
lery, from which to the fore part of the quarter-piece
draw a ftraight line parallel to the rail below, which
line will be the upper edge of the upper rim rail ; and
its thicknefs being fet off, the lower edge may alfo be
drawn. From the upper edge of that rail fet up an ex¬
tent equal to the diftance between the lower rim rail
and middle ftool rail, and defcribe the upper ftool rail,
the after end of which will be determined by the quar¬
ter-piece, and the fore end by the line for the length of
the gallery. There may be three falhes drawn between
thefe two rails as before ; and hence the upper gallery
will be formed.
The upper finilhing fhould be next drawn, the length
of which may be if foot lefs than the upper gallery.
Draw a line parallel to the rake of the ftern for the fore
end of it, and let the. upper part of the lop fide be the
upper part of the upper rail, from which fet down three
inches for the thicknefs of the rail, and defcribe it.
Defcribe alfo another rail of the fame length and thick¬
nefs as the former, and eight inches below } from the
end of which a ferpentine line mav be drawn down to
the upper ftool rail, and the upper finilhing will be com¬
pleted.
The ftevn being now finlfhed, the rudder only re¬
mains to be drawn. The breadth of the rudder at the
lower part is tc be determined from the proper liens, and
271
fet off from the line reprefenting the aft part of the Application
ftern-poft 5 which line alio reprefents the fore part of
the rudder. Then determine on the lower hance,
ting it be no higher than is juft fufficient, which may beftru&ion of
about one foot above the load water-line, and fet off its Ships,
breadth at that place taken from the proportions. Then *—-“v'—’*-*
a line draw from thence to the breadth fet off at the
lower part will be the aft fide of the rudder below the
lower hance. There may alfo be another hance about
the height of the lower deck. The ufe of thefe breaks
or hances is to reduce the breadth as it rifes toward the
head. The aft part may be drawn above the lower
hance, the break at the lower hance being about ten
inches, and the break at the upper hance fix inches.—-
The back may be then drawn. It is of elm, about
four inches thick on the aft part. That thicknefs be¬
ing fet off, and a line drawn from the lower hance to
the lower end, will reprefent the back. The head of
the rudder flrould be as high as to receive a tiller above
the upper deck. Therefore fet off the fize of the head
above the upper deck, and draw a line from thence to
the break at the upper hance, and the aft part of the
rudder will be reprefented all the way up. The beard¬
ing Ihould be drawn, by felting off the breadth of it
at the keel from the fore fide of the rudder, which may
be nine inches. Set off alfo the breadth at the head of
the wing tranfom, which may be a foot. Then a line »
being drawn through thefe two points, from the lower
part of the rudder to about a foot above the wing tran¬
fom, and the bearding will be reprefented. As the
bearding is a very nice point, and the working of the
rudder depending very much upon it, it Ihould always
be very particularly confidered. It has been cuftomary to
beard the rudder to a ftiarp edge at the middle line, by
which the main piece is reduced more than neceffary.
The rudder Ihould, however, be bearded from the fide
of the pintles, and the fore fide made to the form of the
pintles.
The pintles and braces may next be drawn. In order
to which determine the place of the upper one, which
muft be fo difpofed that the ftraps fliall come round the
head of the ftandard, which is againit the head of the
ftern-poft on the gun-deck, and meet at the middle line.
By this means there is double fecurity both to the brace
and ftandard. To obtain thofe advantages, it muff
therefore be placed about four inches above the wing
tranfom : the lecond muft be placed juft below the gun-
deck fo as to bolt in the middle of the deck tranibm,
and the reft ‘may be fpaced equally between the lower
one, which may be.about fix inches above the upper
edge of the keel. The number of them is generally
feven pair upon this clafs of (hips j but the number may¬
be regulated by the diftance between the fecond and up¬
per one, making the diftance between the reft; nearly
the fame. The length of all the braces will be found
by felting off the length of the lower one, which may
be eight feet afore the back of the ftern-poft, and alfo
the length of the third, which is four feet and a half
afore the back of the Itern-poft ; and a line drawn from
the one extremity to the other will limit the intermedi¬
ate ones, as will appear on the ftieer draught. The
braces -will feem to diminifti in length very much as
they go up; but when meafured or viewed on the
fiiape of the body, they will be nearly of an equal
length. The length of the firaps of the pintles which
come
£7'2
H I P - B U I L D X N G.
a prlication come upon
•o; the fore- tj,e prt
Rules
tVie rudder mny all be within four inches
fide of the rudder; and the rudder be-
vo the Con- iuo a ^at furface» ^iey will all appear of the proper
-iirudlion of lengths.
Slup?. II. Of the ha If threadth and body plans.—The half-
w p}an nr.utl pe fifti drawn. Then produce the
lower edge of the keel both ways, and let it alfo rcpre-
fent the middle line of the half-breadth plan. Produce
all the frames downwards, and alio the fore and after
perpendiculars. Then from the place in the (beer-plan,
where the height of breadth-lines interfedl the ilem,
(quare down to the middle line the fore and aft part of
the rabbet and the fore part of the ilem. Take from
the dimenfions what the Hem is fidcd at that place, and
fet off half of it from the middle line in the half-breadth
plan, through which draw a line parallel to the middle
line through the three lines fquared down, and the half
breadth of the Hem will be reprefented in the half¬
breadth plan. Take the thicknefs of the plank of the
bottom which is 4-’- inches, and defcribe the rabbet of
the Hem in the half-breadth plan.
From the points of interfeftion of the height of
breadth lines with the counter timber at the fide, and
with the counter timber at the middle line, draw lines
perpendicular to the middle line of the half-breadth
plan, from which fet off the half breadth of the counter
on the line firff drawn ; and from this point to the inter-
feflion of the line lafi drawn, with the middle line draw
a curve, and the half breadth of the counter will be re¬
prefented at the height of breadth, which wall be the
broadeft part of the Hern.
Take the main half breadth of timber dead flat from
the dimenfions, and lay it off from the middle line on
dead flat in the half-breadth plan. Take alfo from the
dimenfions the main half breadth of every timber, and
fet off each from the middle line on the correfponding
timbers in the half-breadth plan. Then a curve drawn
from the end of the line reprefenting the half breadth
of the counter through all the points, fet oft on the tim¬
bers, and terminating at the aft part of the Hern, will
be the main half-breadth line. Take from the dimen¬
fions the top-timber half breadth, and defcribe the top-
timber half-breadth line in the half-breadth plan, in the
fame manner as the main half-breadth line.
Take from the dimenfions the half breadth of the ri¬
ling, and fet it off from the middle line on the corre¬
fponding timbers in the half-breadfh plan, obferving,
where the word outjide is expreffed in the tables, the
half breadth for that timber muff be fet oft' above or
on the outfide of the middle line. Then a curve drawn
through thefe points wall be the half breadth of riling
in the half-breadth plan.
. It will now be neceffary to proceed to the body plan,
ccccxcn. I^raw a horizontal line (fig. 35.), which is called the
Fig. bafe line, from the right hand extremity of which ere£t
a perpendicular. Then fet off on the bafe line the
main half breadth at dead flat, and ereft another per¬
pendicular, and from that fet eff the main half breadth
again, and ereft a third perpendicular. The firft per¬
pendicular, as already .obferved, is called the fide line of
the fore body •, the fecond the middle line y and the
third the fide line of the after body.
* Take from the dimenfions the heights of the diago¬
nals up the middle line, and fet them from the bafe up
thg middle line in the body plan, Take alfo their di-
3
fiances from the middle line on the bafe* and fet them Applifatisc
off. Set off alfo their heights up the fide lines, and07t‘14^8^
draw the diagonals. Then take from the fheer plan the
heights of the lower height of breadth line, and fet them (t,u6tiou of
off upon the middle line in the body plan ; through Ship',
thefc points lines are to be drawn parallel to the bafe,' ““v
and terminating at the fide lines. In like manner pro¬
ceed with the upper height of breadth line.
The riling is next to be fet off on the body plan ; it
mufl, however, be firft deferibed in the ftieer plan :
Take, therefore, the heights from the dimenfions, and
fet them off on the correfponding timbers in the (beer
plan, and a curve deferibed through thefe points will
be the fifing line in the (heer plan. Then take from
the dimenfions the riling heights of dead flat. Set it
off in the body plan, and draw a horizontal line. Now
take all the riling heights from the Iheer plan, and fet
them off in the body plan from the line drawn for the
rifing height of dead flat, and draw horizontal lines
through thefe points. Take from the half-breadib
plan the half breadths of the rifing, and fet them off
from the middle line in the body plan, and the centres
of the floor fweeps of the correfponding timbers will be
obtained.
From the half-breadth plan take the main half-
breadth lines, and fet them off from the middle line in
the body plan on the correfponding lines before drawn
for the lower height of breadth ; and from the extremi¬
ties of thefe lines fet off towards the middle line the
lengths of the lower breadth fweeps refpe&ively.
Take from the dimenfions the diftance of each frame
from the middle line on the diagonals, and fet them off
from the middle line on their refpeftive diagonal lines.
Now thefe diftances being fet off, and the lower breadth
and floor fweeps defciibed, the Ihape of the frames be¬
low the breadth line may eafily be drawn as follows :
Place one point of a compafs in the diftance fet off for
the length of the lower breadth fweep, and extend the
other to the point which terminates the breadth, and
defcribe an arch of a circle downwards, which will in-
terfedl the points fet off on the upper diagonal lines,
letting it pafs as low as convenient. Then fik one point
of the compaftes i*n the centre of the floor fweep, and
extend the other to the point fet off on the fourth diago¬
nal, which is the floor head •, and defcribe a circle to
interfeft as many of the points fet off on the diagonals
as it will. Then draw a curve from the back of the
lower breadth fweep, through the points on the diago¬
nals, to the back of the floor fweep. Defcribe alfo
another curve from the back of the floor fweep through
the points on the lower diagonals, and terminating at
the upper part of the rabbet of the keel, and that part
of the frame below the breadth will be formed. In like
manner deferibe the other frames.
Through the extremities of the frames at the low'er
height of breadth draw lines parallel to the middle line,
and terminating at the upper height of breadth line, and
from thence fet off the upper breadth fweeps •, now fix
one point of the compafs in the centres of the upper
breadth fweeps fucceflively, and the other point to the
extremities of the frames, and deferibe circles upwards.
Then from the fheer plan take off the heights of the
top-timber lines, and fet them off in the body plan,
drawing horizontal lines ; upon which fet off the top-
timber half breadths taken from the correfpoading tim¬
bers
5 H I P - B U
Apptieatlonbers in tbe h£ilf-breatlth plan j and by dcfcribing curves
of the fore- from jjacj, 0f jj-jg Upper breadth fweeps through the
fo the Con6-5 P0,nts ^et on t^e Seventh or upper diagonal j and in-
(trudtion of terfedling the top-timber half-breadths, the timbers will
Ships. then be formed from the keel to the top of the fide.
*~y " The upper end of the timbers may be determined by-
taking the feveral heights of the upper part of the top
fide above the top-timber line, and fetting them off
above the top-timber line on the correfponding timbers
in the body plan. The lower parts of the timbers are
ended at the rabbet of the keel as follows : With an ex¬
tent of four inches and a half, the thicknefs of the bot¬
tom, and one leg of the compaffes at the place where
the line for the thicknefs of the keel interfedls the bafe
line ; with the other leg defcribe an arch to interfeft the
keel line and the bafe. Then fix one point at the inter-
fe&ion of the arch and keel, and from the point of in-
terfeftion of the keel and bafe defcribe another arch to
interfedl the former. Then from the interfedlion of
thefe arches draw one ftraight line to the interfedlion of
the keel and bafe, and another to the interfeftion of the
lower arch and the keel, and the rabbet of the keel
will be deferibed at the main frame. All the timbers
in the middle part of the {hip which have no rifing ter¬
minate at the interfeftion of the upper edge of the rab¬
bet with the bafe line ; but the lower part of the tim¬
bers, having a rifing, end in the centre of the rabbet,
that is, where the two circles interfeft. Thofe timbers
which are near the after end of the keel muff be ended
by fetting off the half breadth of the keel at the port in
the half-breadth plan, and defcribe the tapering of the
keel. Then at the correfponding timbers take off the
half breadth of the keel; fet it off in the body plan,
and defcribe the rabbet as before, letting every timber
end where the two circles for its refpeftive rabbet in-
terfedt.
To defcribe the fide counter or ftern timber, take
the height of the wing tranfom, the lower counter, up¬
per counter, and top-timber line at the fide; from the
{beer plan transfer them to the body plan, and through
thele points draw horizontal lines. Divide the diftance
between the wing tranfom and lower counter into three
equal parts, and through the two points of divifion
draw two horizontal lines. Draw alfo a horizontal line
equidiftant from the upper counter and the top-timber
line in the Iheer plan, and transfer them to the body
plan.
Nqw, from the point of interfeftion of the aft fide of
the ftern timber at the fide, with the wing tranfom at
the fide in the fheer plan, draw a line perpendicular to
the middle line in the half-breadth plan. Draw alfo
perpendicular lines from the points where the upper and
lower tranfoms touch the ftern-poft ; from the points of
interfeflion of the ftern timber with the two horizontal
lines drawn between, and from the interfeftion of the
ftern timber with the horizontal line drawn between the
upper counter and top-timber line. Then curves muft
be formed in the half-breadth plan for the ftrape of the
body at each of thefe heights. In order to which, be¬
gin with the horizontal or level line reprefenting the
height of the wing tranfom in the body plan. Lay a
flip of paper to that line, and mark on it the middle
line and the timbers 37, 35, 33, and 29 ; transfer the
flip to the half-breadth plan, placing the point marked
on it for the middle line exa&ly on the middle in the
Vol. XIX. Part I.
I L D I N G.
half-breadth plan, and fet off the half breadths on the
correfponding timbers 37, 35, 33, and 29, and defcribe
a curve through thefe points, and to interfed the per¬
pendicular drawn from the fheer plan. In like manner
proceed with the horizontal lines at the heights of the
counters, between the lower counter and wing tranfom,
above the upper counter and top-timber line j and from
the interfedlions of the curve drawn in the half-breadth
plan, with the perpendicular lines drawn from the
flieer plan, take the diftances to the middle line, and
fet them off on the correfponding lines in the body
plan ; then a curve deferibed through the feveral points
thus fet off will be the reprefentative of the ftern
timber.
'I he round-up of the wing tranfom, upper and lower
counter, may be taken from the (beer draught, and fet
off at the middle line above their refpedtive level lines
in the body plan, by which the round-up of each may
be drawn. The round aft of the wing tranfom may
alfo be taken from the (beer plan, and fet off at the
middle line, abaft the perpendicular for the wing tran¬
fom in the half-breadth plan, whence the round aft of
the wing tranfom may be deferibed.
Ihe after body being now finiftied, it remains to
form the fore body; but as the operation is nearly the
fame in both, a repetition is therefore unneceffary, ex¬
cept in thofe parts which require a different procefs.
The foremoft timbers end on the ftem, and confe-
quently the method of deferibing the ending of them
differs from that ufed for the timbers ufed in the after
body. Draw a line in the body plan parallel to the
middle line, at a diftance equal to the half of what
the ftem is fided. In the ftieer plan take the height
of the point of interfeftion of the lower part of the
rabbet of the ftem with the timber which is required
to be ended, and fet it off on the line before drawn in
the body plan. Then take the extent between the
points of interfeflion of the timber with the lower and
upper parts of the rabbet, and with one leg of the
compaffes at the extremity of the diftance laid off in the
body plan defcribe a circle, and the timbers may then
pafs over the back of this circle. Now, by applying a
{mail fquare to the timber, and letting the back of it in-
terfedt the point fet off for the lower part of the rabbet,
the lower part of the rabbet and the ending of the
timbers will be deferibed.
The foremoft timbers differ alfo very much at the
head from thofe in the after body : For fince the ftiip
carries her breadth fo far forward at the top-timber line,
it therefore occafions the two foremoft frames to fall
out at the head beyond the breadth, whence they are
called knuckle timbers. They are thus deferibed z
The height of the top-timber line being fet off in the
body plan, fet off on it the top half breadth taken from
the half-breadth plan, and at that place draw a perpen¬
dicular 5 then from the flieer plan take the height of
the top of the fide, and fet it off on the perpendicular
in the body plan : Take alfo the breadth of the rail at
the top-timber line in the ftieer plan, and fet it off be¬
low the top-timber line at the perpendicular line in the
body plan, and the ftraight part of the knuckle timber
to be drawn will be determined. Then from the lafi-
mentioned point fet off defcribe a curve through the
points fet off for the timber down to the upper breadth,
and the whole knuckle timber will be formed. It will
M in hence
273
Application
oi the fore¬
going Rules
to the Con-
ftruction of
Ships.
274 S H I P - B U
Application hence be feen tlrat lliofe timbers forward will fall out
^oin'^Rides beyonc^ tbe 111 a'n breadth with a hollow, contrary to the
to'the Con- re^ t^e toP ^e> which falls within the main breadth
flru&ion of with a hollow.
Ships. The fore and after bodies being now formed, the wa-
J ter lines muft next be defcribed in the half-breadth plan,
in order to prove the fairnefs of the bodies. In this
draught the water lines are all reprefented parallel to
the keel; their heights may, therefore, be taken from
the Iheer plan, and transferred to the body plan, draw¬
ing horizontal lines, and the water lines will be repre¬
fented in the body plan. In (hips that draw more wa¬
ter abaft than afore, the water lines will not be parallel
to the keel; in this cafe, the heights muft be taken at
every timber in the ftieer plan, and fet off on their cor-
relponding timbers in the body plan j and curves being
defcribed through the feveral points, will reprefent the
water lines in the body plan.
Take the diftances from the middle line to the points
where the water lines interfefd the different timbers in
the body plan, and fet them off on their correlponding
timbers in the half-breadth plan. From the points
where the water lines in the ftieer plan interfedl the
aft part of the rabbet of the flernpoft draw perpendi¬
culars to the middle line of the half-breadth plan, and
upon thefe perpendiculars fet oft' from the middle line
the half thicknefs of the fternpoft at its correiponding
water line •, which may be taken from the body plan,
by fetting off the fize of the poft at the head and the
keel, and drawing a line for the tapering of it ; and
where the line fo drawn interfcfls the water lines, that
will be the half thicknefs required : then take an extent
in the compaffes equal to the thicknefs of the plank, and
fix one point where the half thicknefs of the poft in-
terfefls the perpendicular, and with the other defcribe
a circle, from the back of which the water lines may
. pafs through their refpeftive points fet oft', and end at
the fore part of the half-breadth plan, proceeding in
the fame manner as wdth the after part. A line drawn
from the water line to the point fet off for the half
thicknefs of the poft will reprefent the aft part of the
rabbet of the poft •, and in like manner the rabbet of
the ftem may be reprefented. The water lines being
all defcribed, it will be feen if the body is fair j and if
the timbers require any alteration, it fhould be complied
with.
The cant-timbers of the after body may next be de¬
fcribed in the half-breadth plan ; in order to which the
cant of the fafhion-piece muft firft be reprefented. Ha¬
ving therefore the round aft of the wing tranfom re¬
prefented in the half-breadth plan, and alfo the ftiape
of a level line at the height of the wing tranfom ; then
fet off the breadth of the wing tranfom at the end,
which is one foot four inches, and that will be the place
where the head of the faftiion-piece wall come : now to
determine the cant of it, the fhape of the body muft be
confidered ; as it muff be canted in fuch a manner as
to preferve as great a ftraightnefs as is poflible for the
fhape of the timber, by which means the timber will be
much ftronger than if it were crooked •, the cant muft
alfo be confidered, in order to let the timber have as
little bevelling as poflible. Let, therefore, the heel of
the timber be fet off on the middle line, two feet afore
timber 35 ; and then drawing a line from thence to the
point fet off on the level line for the wing tranfom, the
I L B I N G.
cant of the fafliion-piece will be defcribed, and will be Application
found fituated in the beft manner poflible to anfwer the01 lt:,e
berore mentioned purpoies. ,0 t,“ Coi)_
The cant of the faftiion-piece being reprefented, the ftuufhoricf
cant of the other timbers may now be eafily determi- Ship?,
ned. Let timber 29 be the foremoft cant timber in the
after body, and with a pencil draw timber 28 ; then
obferve- how many frames there are between timber 28
and the faftiion-piece, which will be found to be nine,
namely, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, and 37. Now
divide the diflance between timber 28 and the falhion-
piece on the middle line into 10 equal parts : Divide al¬
io the correfponding portion of tiie main half-breadth
lines into the fame number of equal parts ; and ftraight
lines joining the coirefponding points at the middle line
with thofe in the hall-breadth line will reprefent the
cant timbers in the after body.
The line drawn for the cant of the fafliion-piece re-
prefents the aft fide of it, which comes to the end of
the tranfoms ; but in order to help the cenverfion with
regard to the lower tranfems, there may be two more
fafliion-pieces abaft the former •, therefore the foremoft
faftiion-piece, or that which is already defcribed in the
half-breadth plan, may only take the ends of the three
upper tranfoms, which are, the wing, filling, and deck :
the middle fafhion-piece may take the four next, and
the after fafhion-piece the lower ones: therefore fet off
in the half-breadth plan the Tiding of the middle and
after fafliion-piece, which may be 13 inches each ; then
by drawing lines parallel to the foremoft fafhion-piece,
at the aforefaid diftance from each other, the middle and
after falhion-piece will be reprefented in the half-breadth
plan.
The fafliion-piece and tranfoms yet remain to be re-
prefented in the (beer plan ; in order to which, let the
number of tranfoms be determined, which, for lo large
a buttock, may be feven below the deck tranfom : draw
them with a pencil, beginning with the wing, the upper
fide of which is represented by a level line at its height j
fet off its fiding below that, and draw a level line for
the lower edge. The filling tranfom follows; which
is merely for the purpofe of filling the vacancy between
the under edge of the wing and the upper part of the
deck plank : it may therefore be reprefented by draw¬
ing two level lines for the upper and lower edge, leaving
about two inches between the upper edge and lower
edge of the wing tranfom, and four inches between the
lower edge of the gun-deck plank ; then the deck tran¬
fom muft be governed by the gun-deck, letting the un¬
der fide of the gun-deck plank reprefent the upper fide
of it, and fetting off its fiding below that ; the under
edge may alfo be drawn : the tranforas below the deck
may all be fided equally, which may be 11 inches j they
muft alfo have a fufficient diftance between to admit the
circulation of the air to preferve them, which may be
about three inches.
The tranfoms being now drawn with a pencil, the fa¬
fliion-piece muft next be defcribed in the fheer plan, by
which the length of the tranfoms as they appear in that
plan will be determined. As the foremoft fafliion-
piece reaches above the upper tranfom, it may therefore
be firft defcribed : in order to wdiich, draw a fufficient
number of level lines in the fheer plan 5 or, as the wa¬
ter lines are level, draw therefore one line between the
upper water line and the wing tranfom, and one above
S H I P - B U
Application the wins trauioiTi at the intended height of the head
of the fore- 0f t}le faihion-piece, which may be about five feet: then
going Rules ^ ftdidit. of ihefe two level lines, and transfer
ftruftion of them to the body plan 5 and take off two or three tim-
Ships. bers and run them in the half-breadth plan, in the fame
w—-v  manner as the water lines were done , then from the
point where the line drawn for the cant of the faihion-
piece, in the half-breadth plan, interfeefs the level line
drawn for the head of the faihion-piece, draw up a per¬
pendicular to the faid line in the Iheer plan, making a
point. Again, from the interfeclion of the cant line,
with the level line for the wing tranfom in the half-
breadth plan, draw a perpendicular to the wing tranfom
in the Iheer plan. Alfo draw perpendiculars from the
points where the cant line in the half-breadth plan in-
terfedfs the level line below the wing tranfom, and alfo
the water lines to the correfponding lines in the Iheer
plan ; then a curve deferibed through thefe points will
be the reprefentation of the foremoft faihion-piece in the
Iheer plan. In the fame manner the middle and after
falhion-pieces may be deferibed 5 obferving to let the
middle one run up no higher than the under part of the
deck tranfom, and the after to the under fide of the
fourth tranfom under the deck. The tranfoms may now
be drawn with ink, as their lengths are limited by the
falhion-pieces.
Neither the head nor the forefide of the Iternpolt are
yet deferibed ; take, therefore, from the dimenfions, the
breadth of the poll on the keel, and fet it off on the
upper edge of the keel from the aft fide of poll. I he
head of the poll mull next be determined, which mull
juft be high enough to admit of the helm-poll tranfom
and the tiller coming between it and the upper deck
beam 5 the height therefore that is neceffary will be one
foot nine inches above the wing tranfom. Now draw
a level line at that height, upon which fet off the breadth
of the fternpoft at that place, taken from the dimen¬
fions, and a line drawn from thence to the point fet off
on the keel will be the forefide of the fternpoft •, obfer¬
ving, however, not to draw the line through the tran¬
foms, as it will only appear between them. The inner
poll may be drawn, by fetting off its tbicknefs forward
from the fternpoft, and drawing a ftraight line as be¬
fore, continuing it no higher than the under fide of the
wing tranfom.
The cant timbers in the after body being deferibed,
together with the parts dependent on them, thofe in the
fore body may be next formed •, in order to which, the
foremoft and aftermoft cant timbers mull be firft deter¬
mined, and alfo the cant of the foremoft ones. The
foremoft cant timber will extend fo far forward as to be
named ^; the cant on the middle line may be one foot
four inches afore fquare timber W, and on the main half
breadth line one foot nine inches afore timber Y 5 in
which fituation the line may be drawn for the cant ;
the aftermoft may be timber Q. The cant timbers
may now be deferibed in the fame manner as thofe in
the after body, namely, by (pacing them equally be¬
tween the cant timber <b‘ and the fquate timber P, both
on the main half-breadth, and middle lines, and draw¬
ing ftraight lines between the correfponding points, ob¬
ferving to let them run out to the top-timber half¬
breadth 'line, where it comes without the main half-
breadth line.
The hawfe pieces muft next be laid down in the half¬
breadth plan ; the fides of which muft look fore and aft
I L D I N G. 275
with the (hip upon account of the round of the bow. Application
Take the Tiding of the apron, which may be about four of l‘ie
inches more than the Hem, and fet oft’ half of it fromj^^ £on_
the middle line, drawing a line from the main half-ftm.£Kon of
breadth to the foremoft cant timber, which will repre- Ships,
fent the foremoft edge of the knight-head; then from -——v—-*•'
that fet off the Tiding of the knight-head, which may
be one foot four inches, and draw the aft Tide of it.
The hawfe pieces may then be drawn, which are four
in number, by fetting off their Tidings, namely, one foot
fix inches parallel from the knight-head and from each
other} and ftraight lines being drawn from the main
half-breadth line to the foremoft cant timber will repre-
fent them.
The hawfe holes fiiould be deferibed in fuch a man¬
ner as to wound the hawfe pieces as little as poflible }
they may therefore be placed fo that the joint of the
hawfe pieces {hall be in the centre of the holes, whence
they will only cut half the hawfe pieces. Take the di¬
menfions of the hawfe holes, which is one foot fix
inches, and fet off the foremoft one, or that next the
middle line, on the joint between the firft and fecond
hawfe piece ; then fet off the other on the joint between
the third and fourth hawfe piece ; and fmall lines being
drawn acrofs the main half-breadth at their refpedlive
places will reprefent the hawfe holes in the half-breadth
plan.
The hawfe holes fliould next be reprefented in the
ftieer plan. In this clafs of fliips they are always pla¬
ced in the middle between the cheeks 5 therefore fet
off their diameter, namely, one foot fix inches, between
the cheeks, and draw lines parallel to the cheeks for
their upper and lower part. Then to determine their
fituation agreeable to the half-breadth plan, which is
the fore and aft way, draw perpendiculars from their
interfedlions with the main half-breadth line to the lines
drawn between the cheeks, and their true fituations, the
fore and aft way, will be obtained ; and, by deferibing
them round or circular, according to the points fet off,
they will be reprefented as they appear in the iheer plan.
The apron may be drawn in the flieer plan, fetting
off its bignefs from the ftem, and letting it come fo low
that the fcarf may be about two feet higher than the
foremoft end of the fore foot j by which it will give ftiip
to the foarfs of the ftem. It may run up to the head of
the ftem.
The cutting down ihould next be drawn. Take there¬
fore from the tables of dimenfions the different heights
there exprefled, and fet them off’ from the upper edge
of the keel on the correfponding timbers in the fheer
plan : then a curve deferibed through the points fet off,
from the inner poll aft to the apron forward, will be the
cutting down. Next fet off from the cutting down the
thicknefs of the timber ilrake, w hich is eight inches and
a half, and a curve deferibed parallel to the former will
reprefent the timber ftrake, from which the depth of
the hold is always meafured.
The kelfon is drawn, by taking its depth from the
dimenfions, and fet it off above the cutting down line j
and a curve deferibed parallel to the cutting down will
reprefent the kelfon.
The cutting down line being deferibed, the knee of
the dead wood abaft timber 27, being the after floor
timber, may then be reprefented. Set off the fiding
of the floor abaft it, and eredl a perpendicular in the
{beer plan, which will terminate the foremoft end of
Mm2 the
276 . S H I P-B U
ofPtheCfot1ic°nthe ^ad,W°0d : then ,tlie fore and aft arra of'the knee
going Rule;half the length of the whole dead wood, and
to the Con- the up and down arm may reach to the under part of
itruiftion of the lower tranfom 5 and the whole knee may be placed
. Shlps _ m fuch a manner that the upper piece of the dead
wood (hall bolt over it, and be of as much fubftance as
the knee itfelf: therefore the knee muff confequently
be placed its whole thicknefs below the cutting down
line repiefenting the upper part of the dead wood.
The (beer draught, the body, and half-breadth pi
are now finilhed, from whence the (hip may be laid
down in the mould loft, and alfo the whole frame erect¬
ed. As, however, the ufe of the diagonal lines in the
body plan has not been fufficiently explained, it is there¬
fore thought proper to fubjoin the following illuftration
45 of them.
Nature and _ 1 he diagonal lines in the body plan are mentioned
ufe of dia- m the tables of dimenfions merely for the purpofe of
gona nes. {ormmg the body therefrom 5 but after the body is
formed, they are of very principal ufe, as at their fta-
tio..s the ribbands and harpins which keep the body of
the (hip together while in her frames are all defcribed,
and the heads of the different timbers in the frame like-
wife determined.
The lowermoft diagonal, or N° 1. which is named
the lower fir mark, at which place the bevellings are ta¬
ken for the hollow of the floors ; its fituation is gene¬
rally in the middle between the keel and the floor fir-
mark.
. Second diagonal is placed in the midlhips, about 18
inches below the floor head, and is the flation where the
floor ribband is placed in midfliips, and likewife the floor
harpin forward; there is alfo a bevelling taken at this
diagonal all the way fore and aft, from which it is term¬
ed the floor Jirmark.
Third diagonal, terminates the length of the floors
and is therefore called the floor head. There are like¬
wife bevellings taken at this diagonal as far forward and
ate as the floor extends. The placing of this diagonal
is of the utmofl: confequence to the ftrength of the (hip
it being fo near to that part of the bulge which takes
the ground, and of confequence is alwTays liable to the
greateft drain : it (hould therefore be placed as much
above the bearing of the body in midfliips as could be
conveniently allowed by converfion of the timber 5 but
afore and abaft it is not of fo much confequence.
Fourth diagonal is placed in the middle between the
floor head and the fifth diagonal, at which place a rib¬
band and harpin are flatioued for the fecurity of the firfl:
<nr lower futtock, from whence it is named the flrfl fut-
tock fir mark. There are alfo bevellings taken at this
diagonal all afore and aft, which being part of the body
wheie the timbers mod vary, occafions them to be the
greated bevellings in the whole body.
Fifth diagonal terminates the heads of the firfi fut
tocks and is therefore called the firfl futtock head. It
Ihould be placed at a convenient didance above the
floor head, in order to give a fufficient fcarf to the
lower part of the fecond futtocks. There are likewife
bevellings for the timbers taken at this diagonal, all fore
♦n S'fa diag°nal if10U!d be Placed Jn middle between
the firfl futtock head and the feventh diagonal: at
which place the ribband and harpin are flationed for the
support of the fecond futtocks. Bevellings are taken at
It is named the fecond Application
of the fore-
I L D I N Gj
this diagonal all fore arid aft.
futtock Jirmark.
Seventh diagonal terminates the fecond futtock heads ?01I]g *uItS
from the fore to the aftennofl floors, and afore and abaft it°tudficui°of
them it terminates the double futtock heads in the fore Ships,
and aft cant bodies. It fliould be placed in midihips,y—
as much above the flrfl futtock head as the firfl full
tock is above the floor head : by which it gives the
lame fcarf to the lower part of the third futtock as the
firft futtock does to the fecond. There are bevellings
taken all fore and aft at this diagonal. It is named the
Jecond futtock head.
Eighth diagonal is the ftation for the ribband and
harpin which fupports the third futtocks, and is there¬
fore placed between the fecond futtock head and ninth
diagona!. It is alfo a bevelling place, and is named the
third Juttock frmark.
Ninth and laft diagonal is placed the fame diftance
above the fecond futtock head as that is above the firfl
and terminates all the heads of the third futtocks which
are in the frames, as they come between the ports ; but
■uch as are between the frames, and come under the
lowrei deck ports, muft run up to the under part of the
ports, as no fhort timbers (hould by any means be ad¬
mitted under the ports, which require the greateft pof-
fible ftrength. This diagonal is likewife a bevelling
place for the heads of the third futtocks, and is therefore
called the third futtock head.
1 he fourth futtock heads are terminated by the un¬
der part of the upper deck ports all fore and aft, and
a ribband is placed fore and aft at the height of the up¬
per breadth line, another between the lower and upper
deck ports, and one at the top-timber line ; which, with
the ribbands and harpins before mentioned, keep the
whole body of the (hip together, and likewife in its pro¬
per form and (liape.
. 11 mu.ft be obferved, that the diagonal lines laid down
in the dimenfions will not correfpond to what has been
(aid above upon diagonals, as they were drawn difere-
tionally upon the body for the purpofe of giving the
true dimenfions of it. Therefore, when the body is
drawn m fair, the firft diagonals (which (hould only be
in pencil) are to be rubbed out, and the proper diago¬
nals drawn with red ink, ftriftly adhering to what has
been faid above.
Sect. III. Of the Inboard Works of the Ship defcribed itt
the preceding SeBion.
Draughts of the outboard works being now con-
ftrufted, in which every part is defcribed that is necefl'a-
ry to enable the artift to put the (hip in her frames, we
muft now proceed to form another draught of the cavity
of the (hip or inboard works, which muft be fo contrived
t.iat every thing within the (hip may be arranged in the
moft commodious manner and to the beft advantage.
It is ufual to draw the inboard works in the (beer- Ship-BuiliK
draught j but as this generally occafions much confufion er's Repofi.
it is therefore the beft and eafieft method to appropriate*077,
a draught to this particular purpofe.
Take from the (heer-draught the ftem, ftern-poft
counter timbers, and keel, and deferibe them on an-’
other paper; draw in alfo the cutting down, kelfon
apron, tranioms, faftiion-pieces, and decks, and the up!
per line of the (beer all fore and aft, alfo pafs the timbers
and ports.
The
SHIP-BUILDING. 277
Application The beams come firft under confideration, and fhould
of the tore- j-,e f0 (jifpofcd as to come one under and one between
to the Con^eaC^ P011’ 0r aS near 35 Can t0 an^wer ot^er worhs
ftruftion of °f the ihip but w'here it happens that a beam cannot
Ships. poffibly be placed under the port, then a beam arm
fhould be introduced to make good the deficiency.
Every beam, and alfo the beam arms, fhouid be kneed
at each end with one lodging and one hanging knee j
and in thofe parts of the fhip which require the knees
to be very acute, fuch as the after beams of the gun-
deck, and in fome fhips, whofe bodies are very fharp,
the foremoft beams of the gun-deck, there fhould be
knees of iron. Care fhould be taken aUvays to let the
upper fide of the knees be below the furface of the
beams, in large fhips one inch and a half, and in fmall
fhips an inch, by which means the air will have a free
paifage between the knees and under part of the
deck.
In the converfion of the beams the fide next the lodg¬
ing knee fhould be left as broad at the end of the beam
as can poflibly be allowed by the timber, the beam re¬
taining its proper fcantling at the end of the lodging
knee : by fo doing the lodging knees will be more with¬
out a fquare, which confequently makes them the more
eafy to be provided.
In fhips where the beams can be got in one piece,
they fhould be fo difpofed as to have every other one
with the butt end the fame way; for this reafon, that
the butts will decay before the tops. In large fhips the
beams are made in tw:o or three pieces, and are there¬
fore allowed to be ffronger than thofe that are in one
piece. The beams in two pieces may have the fcarf
one-third of the length, and thofe in three pieces fliould
have the middle piece half the length of the whole
beam. The cuftomary way of putting them together
is to table them ; and the length of the tablings fliould
be one-half more than the depth of the beam. It is
very common to divide the tablings in the middle of
the beam, and that part which is taken out at the up¬
per fide to be left at the lowTer fide, and then kerfey or
flannel is put int* the fcarf: but in this cafe the wa¬
ter is liable to lie in the fcarf, and muff be the means
of rotting the beams. If, however, the. beams were ta¬
bled together in dovetails, and taken through from fide
to fide, putting tar only between them, •which hardens
the wood •, then the water occafioned by the leaking
of the decks would have a free paffage, and the beam
would dry again } and this method would not be found
inferior in point of ilrength to the other. The length
of the fore and aft arm of the lodging knee fhould ex¬
tend to the fide of the hanging knee next to it ; but
there is no neceflity for that arm to be longer than the
other. In faftening the knees, care would be taken to
let one bolt pafs exaftly through the middle of the
throat, one foot fix inches from each end, and the reft
divided equally between *, obferving always to have the
holes bored fquare from the knee. The bolts for the
thwartthip arms of both hanging and lodging knees
may go through the arms of each knee, and drive every
one the other way.
In order to draw the beams in the draught, take the
moulding of the lower deck beams, and fet if off below
ihe line reprefenting the deck at the fide, and draw a
line in pencil parallel thereto, which will reprefent the
under fide of the beams. In like manner reprefent the
under fide of the beams for the upper ddek, quarter Application
deck, forecaftle, and roundhoufe. Then take the fidingof j-116
of the lower deck beams, and place one under and one Con-9
between each port, all fore and aft, drawing them in ftruftion of
pencil. Determine the dimenfions of the well fore Ships,
and aft, which is ten feet, and fet it off abaft the beam y—*
under the eighth port, placing the beam under the ninth
port at that diftance : thofe two beams may then be
drawn in ink, and will terminate the extent of the well
the fore and aft way ; and as a beam cannot go acrofs the
(hip at that place upon account of its being the well and
maft room, there muft therefore be a beam arm between
thefe two beams.
The main hatchway fiiould then be determined, let¬
ting the beam that forms the fore part of the well
form the aft part of it, and the beam under the next
part may form the fore fide of it, which beam may alfo
be now drawn in ink : there Ihould alfo be another
beam arm introduced in the wake of the main hatch¬
way.
The fore hatchway may be next determined ; the fore
fide of which Ihould range well up and down with the
after end of the forecaftle, and it may be fore and aft
about four-fevenths of the main hatchway. At the fore-
fide of the fore hatchway there muft be a ladderway down
to the orlop, which may be as much fore and aft as the
beams will allow. The reft of the beams afore the fore
hatchway may remain as firft placed, there being no¬
thing in the way to alter the (hip. Then determine on
the after hatchway, the forefide of which comes to the
aft fide of the mainmaft room.
There fhould alfo be a hatchway, the forefide of
which may be formed by the aft fide of the beam un¬
der the twelfth port j which is for the conveniency of
the fpirit and filh rooms: and there fhould be a ladder-
way abaft it to lead down to the cockpit. There may
be alfo another hatchway, the forefide of it to be form¬
ed by the aft fide of the beam under the eleventh port.
The fize of the ladder and hatchways muft be governed
by the beams, as when there is a good fhift of beams
they fhould not be altered for ladder and hatchways*
unlefs it is the three principal hatchways, which muft
always be of a proper fize, according to the fize of tha
fhip.
The after capftan muft be placed between the two
hatchways laft deferibed, and the beams abaft may
ftand as they are already fhifted, obferving only the
mizenmaft. There fhould be a fmall.fcuttle placed
afore the fecond beam from aft, for the convenience of the
bread room : it muft be on one fide of the middle lines,
as there is a carling at the middle under the four or
five after beams to receive the pillars for the fupport
thereof..
The bits may be placed, letting the forefide of the
after ones come againft the aft fide of the beam abaft
the third port, and the forefide of the foremoft ones
againft the next beam but one forward y then at the fore-
fide of each bit there fliould be drawn a fmall fcuttle for
the conveniency of handing up the. powder from the ma¬
gazine. The breaft hook Ihould alfo be drawn,. which
may be three feet the moulding away, and fided nine-
tenths of the beams of the lower deck.
The gun-deck, beams, knees, &c. being deferibed
in which, as well as all the decks having ports, the fame
precautions are to be ufed as in .the gun-deck j and o’>
ferving
2/8 S H I P - B u
Application ferving to keep the beams upon one-deck as nearly as
°oin'x Rutf"- P0^ble over ^ie beams of the other, for the conve-
to Tlfe Con-5 Iliency of pillaring, as they will then fupport each
ftrucftion of Other.
Ships. The hatchways are to be placed exactly over thofe
^ ^ on the lower deck, each over each ; and therefore,
where there is a beam arm in the lower deck there
mult alfo be one above it in the upper deck, and the
lame in the middle deck in three-deck (hips. It com¬
monly happens in flaps of the line that there cannot be
a whole beam between the deck breaft hook and the
beam that fupports the itep of the bowfprit, becaufe the
bowfprit paffes through that place: in this cafe, there
muft be a beam arm placed, letting the end come equal¬
ly between the beam and the bi-eaft hook : but in blips
that the bowfprit will allow7 of a whole beam, then the
ports and the relt of the beams mult be confulted in or¬
der to fpace it; and w'hen it fo happens that the fore
mall comes in the wake of a port, then a beam arm muft
be neceffarily introduced.
Having placed the beams according to the difpofi-
tion of the other beams below7, the ladderways fhould
be contrived : there ftiould be one next abaft the fore
hatchway, which is a ftngle laddemay , and one next
afore the main hatch, which is a double ladderway •,
the ladders Handing the fore and aft w7ay. There
Ihould alfo be another ne^t abaft the after hatch, and
one over the cockpit correfponding with that on the
lower deck.
The capftans are next to be confidered ; the after
one is already placed on the lower deck, the barrel of
which muft pafs through the upper deck to receive the
whelps and drumhead there, it being a double capftan.
In (hips having three decks, the upper part of each
capftan is in the middle deck ; but in fhips with one
deck there is only this one capftan, the upper part of
which is placed on the quarter deck. The foremoft
capftan Ihould be placed in the molt convenient fpot, to
admit of its being lowered down to the orlop out of
the way of the long boat: it may7 therefore be placed
between the main and fore hatchways the beam under
the fixth port of the low7er deck may form the aft fide
of its room, and the beams on each fide of it fhould be
placed exactly over or under the beams on the other
decks, and they (hould be at a diftance from each other
fufficient to let the drumheads pafs between them. The
centre of the capftan Ihould then be placed in the
middle between the beams which compofe its reomj
and the partners flrould be fitted in fuch a manner as to
fhift occafionally when wanted, which is by letting them
be in two pieces fitted together. The partners on the
low7er deck, wherein the capfian fteps, muft be fupport-
ed by a pillar on the orlop deck, the lower part of which
may be fitted in an oak chock ; fo that when the pillar
is taken away, and the capftan lowered dowm, that
chock ferves as a ftep for the capftan. Thofe two
beams on the orlop, by having the pillar and chock
upon them, have therefore the whole w7eight of the
capftan prefting downwards : for the fupport of them,
there fhould be a carling placed underneath the fere
and aft w7ay, with three pillars, one under each beam,
and one between7, all of them being ftept in the kelfon,
by which the orlop deck will be well fupported in the
wake of the capftan, and the other decks -will feel no
ftraln from it.
2
l L b l N G.
The fire hearth is next to be difpofed} which is Application
placed differently according to the fize of the Ihip. Inn; ihefoie-
three-deckers it is found moil convenient to place it on
the middle deck ; whence there is much more room un- ftruftion of
der the forecaftle than there would have been had it Shirs,
been placed there. In all two-deck flaps it is placed un- 1~"—w— •'
der the forecaftle, becaule on the deck underneath the
bits are in the way. It is alfo under the forecaftle in
one-deck flaps, though confined between the bits: in this
cafe it fliould be kept as near as poflible to the after bits,
that there may be more room between it and the fore¬
moft bits to make a good galley.
The pofitions of the niain-topfail-flieet bits are next
to be determined ; the foremoft of which muft be fo
placed as to let its forefide come againft the aft fide of
the beam abaft the main hatchway, and to pafs down
to the lower deck, and there fiep in the beams : admit¬
ting it to be a ftiaight piece, it would come at the aft
fide of the lower deck beam the fame as it does at the
upper deck beam, in confequence of thofe two beams
ranging well up and down with each other : it muft
therefore have a call under the upper deck beam, by
which the lower part may be brought forward fufficient
to flop in the lower deck beam. The aftermoft muft
be placed againft the forefide of the beam abaft the
mart, and ftep on the beam below ; but there is no ne-
ceflity to provide a crooked piece as before, for the
beam of the upper deck may be moved a little farther
aft, till it admit of the bit Hopping on the lower deck
beam, unlefs the beam comes under a port, as in that
eafe it muft not by any means be moved. The crofs
pieces to the bits ffiould be on the forefide, and in
height from the upper deck about one-third of the
height between it and the quarter deck. With regard
to the heads of the bits, the length of the flrip’s.wafie
fliould be confidered ; and if there is length enough
from the forecaflle to the foremofl bits to admit of the
fpare geer being flowed thereon without reaching far¬
ther aft, the quarter deck may then run fo far forward
that the head7 of the foremoft bits fhall tenon in the
foremoft beam •, this gives the mainmaft another deck,
and admits of the quarter deck being all that the longer :
but if there is not the room before mentioned, then the
quarter deck muft run no further forward than the after
bits, w7hich will then tenon in the foremoft beam ; and
the foremoft bits muft have a crofs piece let on their
heads, which is termed a horfe, and will be for the pur-
pofe of receiving the ends ol the fpare geer.
The length of the quarter deck being now deter¬
mined, the beams are then to be placed. For this pur-
pofe the feveral contrivances in the quarter deck muft
be previoufiy confulted. It is neceffary to obferve, that
there are neither carlings nor lodges, the cal lings of the
hatches excepted, in the quarter deck, tound-boufe, and
forecaftle ; as they would weaken inftead of ftrengthen-
ing the beams, which fliould be as fmall as the fize of
the fhip will permit, in order that the upper works may
be as light as pcffible. Hence, as there are to be nei¬
ther carlings nor lodges, the deck will require a greater
number of beams, and a good round up, as cn the con¬
trary the deck will be apt to bend with its own weight.
The moft appi'oved rule is therefore to have double the
number of beams in the quarter deck as there are in a
fpace of the fame length in the upper deck.
Then proceed to ffiift the beams to the beft advan¬
tage,
Application tage, confulting the hatchways, ladder-ways, mads, bits,
of the fore- wheel, &c. With refped to the ladder-ways on the
going £uiesquarter decks of all {hips, there fnould be one near the
ftru'fhon 0f fore part of the great cabin for the officers, and an-
Ships. other near the foremoit end of the quarter deck, con-
v  filling of double ladders for the conveyance of the men
up from the other decks in cafes of emergency ; and
Jikewife one on each fide of the fore part of the quarter
deck from the gangway : and in every th; p of the line
all the beams from the foremoit ladder-way to the awer
one fhould be open with gratings, botu for the admiffion
of air, and for the greater expedition of conveying diffe¬
rent articles in the time of acihon.
Two fcuttles are to be diCpofed one on each fide of
the mainmaft, if it happens to come through the quar¬
ter deck, for the top tackles to pafs through, to hook
to the eye bolts drove in the upper deck tor that pur-
P°fe.
The (leering wheel fhould be placed under the fore¬
part of the roundhoufe, and the two beams or the quar¬
ter deck, which come under it, fhould be .placed con¬
formable to the two uprights, fo that they may tenon
in them. The quarter deck beams fhould oe kneed at
each end with one hanging and one lodging knee j
which adds greatly to the ftrength of the fide. Ine
hanging knees which come in the great caoin may be
of iron 5 their vertical arms to be "two-thirds of the
length of that of wood, and to reach the fpirketing. It
fhould be obferved, that the beam abaft, which comes
under the fereen bulkhead, fhould round aft agreeable
to the round of the bulkhead, for the fupport of the
lame.
. The forecaflle beams fhauld be placed according as
the works of the deck will admit. 1 lie hatchways are
therefore to be confidered firil. ihere fhouid be one
for the funnel of the fire hearth to pafs through, and
one for the copper to admit of vent for the (learn j ana
alfo one or two over the galley as the forecaitle will
admit of. The fore-topfail-fheet bits fhould be fo dif-
pofed as to come one pair on the fore and one on tne aft
fide of the mall, to let into the fide of the forecaftle
beams, and flep on the upper deck beams below : there
fhould alfo be a ladder-way at the fore part of the fore¬
caftle for the conveniency of the fore part of the (hip.
The beams may now be placed agreeable thereto,
their number being four move than there are in a fpace
in the upper deck equal in length to the forecaftle j
and where there happens to be a wide opening between
the beams, as in the cafe of a hatchway, maft room,
&c. then half a beam of fir may be introduced to make
good the deficiency. The foremoft beam fhould be of
a breadth fufficient to take the aft fide of the inboard
arms of the catheads, as they are fecured upon this beam
by being bolted thereto. Every beam of the forecaftle
fhould be kneed at each end with one hanging and one
lodging knee ‘ the vertical arms of the hanging knees
fliould reach the fpirketing, and the knees well bolted
and carefully clenched.
Proceed to the roundhoufe ; the fame things being
obferved with refpeff to the beams as in the quarter
deck : for as the roundhoufe beams are fided very fin all,
it hence follows that they muft be near to each other.
Let therefore the number of beams on the roundhoufe
be four more than in the fame length of the quarter
SHIP-BUILDING. 279
deck ; every other beam being of nr for hghtnefs, and Application
every oak beam may be kneed at each end with one
hanging and one lodging knee ; the hanging knees abaft(.”n^3
may be of iron, their vertical arms to be in length two ftm<51 ion of
thirds of thofe of wood. The roundhoufe ffiould always Ships,
have a great round up, both for ftrength and convenien- v J
cy. There muft be on the roundhoufe a ftnall pair of
knee-bits on each fide of the mizenmaft, turned round
and fcarfed over each other, and bolted through the maft
carlings. There muft alfo he a companion on the round-
houle placed over the middle of the coach, in order to
give light thereto.
With regard to placing the roundhoufe beams, the
uprights of the fleering wheel and the mizenmaft are
to be obferved j as when the beams which interfere wi th
thofe parts are properly fpaced, the reft may be difpofed
of at diferetion, or at an equal diftance from each other,
and retting the beam over the fereen bulkhead have a
proper round aft, agreeable to the quarter deck beam
underneath.
The upper parts of the inboard works being now de-
feribed, proceed next to the lower parts, or to thofe
which come below the lower deck. Draw in the orlop,
by taking the heights afore, at midfiiips, and abaft,
between that and the gun-deck, from the dimeniions,
and a curve defended through thefe points will repre-
fent the upper part of the deck. Set off the thicknefs
of the plank below, and the under fide of the plank will
be reprelented. As this deck does not run quite for¬
ward and aft as the other decks, the length of it muft:
be therefore determined ; for this purpofe let the after
beam be placed at a fufficient diftance from aft to ad¬
mit of the bread rooms being of a proper fize for the
fliip, which will be under that beam of the gun-deck
that comes at the fecond part from aft. The after
beam being drawn in, proceed to fpace the other beams,
placing them exaftly under thofe of the gun-deck ; and
that which comes under the foremoft beam of the gun-
deck may terminate the fore part of the orlop. Draw
the limber ftrake, by fetting off its thicknefs above the
cutting down line, and a line drawn parallel thereto will
reprefent the limber ftrake. That part of the orlop
which is over the after magazine, fpirit room, and fiffi •
room, and alfo that which is over the fore magazine, is
laid with thicker planks than the reft: of the deck j
which is for the better fecurity of thofe places, the
planks being laid over the beams j but in the midffiips,
from the fore part of the fpirit room to the aft part of
the fore magazine, the beams are laid level with the fur-
face of the deck, and the planks are rabbeted in from
one beam to the other.
In order to reprefent the orlop as juft deferihed, the
dimenfions of the different apartments above mentioned
muft be determined : Let the aft fide of the after beam
be the aft fide of the after magazine, and from thence
draw the bulkhead down to the limber ftrake ; and the
forefide of the third beam may be the forefide of the af¬
ter magazine, drawing that bulkhead likewife, which
will alfo form the aft fide of the fifh room; the forefide
of the fifh room may be drawn from the aft fide of the
fifth beam, which will alfo reprefent the aft fide of the
fpirit room \ then the forefide of the fpirit room may
be drawn from the forefide of the fixth beam. Hence
from the forefide of the fixth beam quite aft the deck
will
:aS«
Offifoit"^i11 be rePrfent,ed1hy the two lines already drawn, and
going Rules, e uPPer ^lde the beams will be represented by the
to the Con- lower line.
ftrudlion of Proceed next to the fore part of the orlop, letting the
, S i‘ps- forefide of the after bits be the aft part of the foremofl:
magazine, drawing the bulkhead thereof, which will
come to the aft fide of the fixth beam $ therefore, from
the fixth beam to the foremoft end of the orlop, the
plank and beams will be reprefented juft in the fame
manner as before mentioned for the after part of the
orlop : then the midihip part of the deck will be re¬
prefented by letting the upper line be the upper fide of
the plank, and likewife the upper fide of the beams;
and the lower line will reprefent the lower edge of the
plank, only drawing it from beam to beam, and obferv-
ing not to let it pafs through them.
The hatchways, &c. may now be reprefented on the
orlop, letting the main, fore, and after hatchway, be
exaftly under thofe of the gun-deck : there muft be
one over the fiih room, and one over the fpirit room.
I here muft be two fcuttles over the after magazine for
the paflage to the magazine and light room. There
ihould alfo be one afore the fourth beam from forward
for the paflage to the fore magazine, and one abaft the
fecond beam for the paffage to the light room.
The bulkheads for the fore and after parts of the
well may be drawn from the lower deck beams to the
orlop, and from thence to the limber ftrake in the hold.
The thot lockers may alfo be reprefented, having one
afore and one abaft the well : there ftiould alfo be one
abaft the foremoft magazine, the ends of which may be
formed by the after bits. The fteps of the marts may
be drawn in by continuing their centres down to the
limber ftrake ; and likewife two crutches abaft the mi-
zen ftep divided equally between that and the after part
of the cutting down: the bread hooks may alfo be drawn
letting them be five in number below the lower deck
hook, and all equally divided between that and the fore
ftep. Hence every part of the inboard is defcribed as far
as neceffary.
Chap. V. Of the Method of Whole-moulding.
46
Method of Having now finifhed the methods of laying down the
whole- feveral plans of a {hip, any farther addition on this fub-
MurrJfs mi£ht .aPPear u?neceffary. _ We cannot, however,
Ship-Build-propriety, omit to defcribe the method called
ing. whole-moulding, ufed by the ancients, and which ftill
continues in ufe among thofe unacquainted with the
more proper methods already explained. This method
will be illuftrated by laying down the feveral plans of
a long-boat; the length of the keel being 29 feet, and
4-, breadth moulded nine feet.
Applied to Draw the ftraight line PO (fig. 37.) equal to 29
alo^hoat.fee^ t]ie extreme length of the boat, and alfo to repre-
€CCCXCrilk.nt,the upper edge of the keel. Let 0 be the ftation
Fig. 37. °r tbe midfhip frame. From the points, P, 0, and O,
draw the lines PT, 0M, and OS, perpendicular to
PO. Make 0M, 0N, equal to the upper and lower
heights of breadth refpeftively at the main frame, PT
the height of breadth at the tranfom, and OS the height
at the Item. Defcribe the curve TMS to reprefent the
flieer or extreme height of the fide, which in a ftiip
would be called the upper height of breadth line, or up¬
per edge of the wale. Through the point N draw a
SHIP-BUILDING.
curve parallel to TMS, to reprefent the breadth of the Method of
upper ftrake of a boat, or lovver edge of the wale if in ^ Hoie-
a {hip. The dotted line TNS may alfo be drawn to re- ,roouiding‘
prefent the low-er height of breadth. /
Set off the rake of the port from P to p, and draw
the line p t to reprefent the aft fide of the port 5 then
T t wall reprefent the round-up of the tranfom. Set off
the breadth of the port from p to r, and from T to
s, and draw the line r s to reprefent the forefide of the
port, which may either be a curve or a ftraight line at
pleafure. Set up the height of the tuck from p to k.
Let ^ X be the thicknefs of the tranfom, and draw the
line ZX to reprefent the forefide of the tranfom.
There is given the point S, the height of the ftieer
on the forefide of the Item ; now that fide of the item
is to be formed either by fweeps or feme other contri¬
vance. Set off the breadth of the Item, and form the
aft fide of it.
Set up the dead-rifing from 0 to d, and form the ri-
fing line r i s. Draw the line KL parallel to PO to
reprefent the lower edge of the keel, and another to re¬
prefent the thicknefs of the plank or the rabbet. The
rabbet on the poll and item may alfe be reprefented •
and the ftations of the timbers affigned, as 0, (i), I? 2,
3> 4> 5* 6> 7> 8> 9 * and 0, (A), A, B, C, D, E,’ F,’
G, H ; and the {beer plan will be completed.
I he half-breadth plan is to be formed next; for this
purpofe the perpendiculars TP, 9, 8, &c. muft be pro¬
duced. Upon M0 produced fet off the half breadth
from the line KL to R (fig. 38.) j fet off alfo the half Fig.35L
breadth at the tranfom from K to b, and defcribe the
extreme half-breadth line b RX, making the forepart
of the curve agreeable to the propofed round of the
tranfom.
We may next proceed to form the timbew in the
body plan. Let AB (fig. 39.) be the breadth mould- Fig.
ed at 0. Ereft the perpendicular CD in the middle
of the line AB ; draw the line mn diftant therefrom
the half thicknefs of the port, and xy the half thicknefs
of the ftern. Then take off the feveral portions of
the perpendiculars 0, 1, 2, &c. intercepted between
the upper edge of the keel and the rifing line in the
flieer plan, and fet them up from C upon the line CD ;
through thefe points draw lines parallel to AC 5 take off
alfo the feveral lower heights of breadth at 0, 1, 2, &c.
from the ftieer plan ; and fet them up from C upon the
middle line in the body plan ; and draw lines parallel to
AC through thefe points : Then take off the feveral
half breadths correfponding to each from the floor plan j
and fet them off on their proper half-breadth lines from
the middle line in the body plan.
Conftruft the midfliip frame by Problem V. the form
of which will in fome meafure determine the form of
the reft. For if a mould be made on any fide of the
middle line to fit the curve part of it, and the rifing
line, or that marked bend mould (fig. 40.), and laid in Fig. 4^.
fuch a manner that the lower part of it, which is ftraight,
may be fet upon the feveral rifing lines, and the upper-
part juft touch the point of the half breadth in the
breadth line carrefponding to that rifing upon which
the mould is placed, a curve may then be drawn by
the mould to the rifing line. In this manner we may
proceed fo far as the rifing line is parallel to the lower
height of the breadth line. Then a hollow mould muft
be made, the upper end of which is left ftraight, as
that
fWh0]'1 .lhal marked hollovo mould (fig. 40.). This is applied
moulding *n a manner» that fome part of the hollow may
 v-.. 1.. touch the fide of the keel, and the ftraight part touch
the back of the curve before defcribed by the bend
mould j and, beginning abaft, the ftraight part will al¬
ways come lower on every timber, till we come to the
midftiip timber, when it comes to the fide of the keel.
Having thus formed the timbers, fo far as the whole
mouldings will ferve, the timbers abaft them are next
formed. Their half breadths are determined by the
flieer and fioor plans, which are the only fixed points
through which the curves of thefe timbers muft pafs.
Some form thefe after timbers before the whole is
moulded, and then make the hollow mould, which will
be ftraighter than the hollow of either of thefe timbers.
It is indifferent rvhich are firft formed, or what methods
are ufed j for after the timbers are all formed, though
every timber may appear very fair when confidered by
itlelf, it is uncertain what the form of the fide will be,
• In order to find which, wre muft form feveral ribband
and water lines } and if thefe do not make fair curves,
they muft be redlified, and the timbers formed from
thefe ribband and water lines. In ufing the hollow
mould, when it is applied to the curve of each tim¬
ber, if the ftraight part is produced to the middle
line, we ftiall have as many points of interfeclion as
there are timbers ; and if the heights above the bafe be
transferred to the correfponding timbers in the ftieer
plan, a curve pafling through thefe points is what is
called a rijingjlrait. This may be formed by fixing
a point for the aftermoft timber that is whole moulded,
and transferring that height to the (beer plan. The
curve murt pafs through this point, and fall in with the
rifing line fomewhere abaft dead fiat *, and if the feve¬
ral heights of this line be transferred from the fheer to
the middle line in the body plan, thefe points will re¬
gulate what is called the hauling down of the hollow
mould.
The timbers in the after body being all formed, thofe
in the fore body are formed in the fame manner, by
transferring the feveral heights of the rifing and breadth
lines from the Iheer to the body plans ; the half
breadths correfponding to each height muft alfo be
transferred from the floor to the body plan. The fame
hollow mould will ferve both for the fore and after¬
body ; and the level lines, by which the water lines to
prove the afterbody were formed, may be produced into
the fore body, and by them the water lines to prove the
fore body may be defcribed.
Another method of proving the body is lay ribband
lines, which are formed by le&ions of planes inclined
to the flieer plan, and interfeaing the body plan diago¬
nally, as before obferved, of which there may be as many
as may be judged neceffary. As this has been already
explained, we fliall therefore lay down only one, repre-
fented in the body plan by the lines marked d i a.
Thefe are drawn in fuch a manner as to be perpendi¬
cular to as many timbers as conveniently may be. After
they are drawn in the body plan, the feveral portions
or the diagonal intercepted between the middle line
and each timber muft be transferred to the floor plan.
Thus, fix one foot of the compaffes in the point where
the diagonal interfefts the middle line in the body plan ;
extend the other foot to the point where the diagonal in¬
terjects the timber ; for example, timber 9 : Set off the
VOL. XIX. Part I.
SHIP-BUILDING.
281
fame extent upon the perpendicular reprefenting the plane Method
of timber 9 from the point where it interfedts the line of Who!e*
KL on the floor plan : in like manner proceed w-ith all f1-011
the other timbers both in the fore and after body j and
thefe ftiall have the points through which the curve muft:
pafs. If this ftiould not prove a fair curve, it muft be
altered, obferving to conform to the points as nearly
as the nature of the curve will admit : fo it may be car¬
ried within one point, and without another, according
as we find the timbers will allow. For after all the
ribband lines are formed, the timbers muft, if needful,
be altered by the ribband lines : this is only the reverfe
of forming the ribband lines 5 for taking the portions
of the feveral perpendiculars intercepted between the
line KL and the curve of the ribband line in the floor
plan, and fetting them off upon the diagonal from
the point where it interfe&s the middle line, we ftiall
have the points in the diagonal through which the
curves of the timbers muft pafs. Thus the diftance
between the line KL and the ribband at timber 3 on
the floor plan, when transferred to the body plan, will
extend on the diagonal from the middle line to the
point where the curve of timber 3 interfeds that dia¬
gonal. The like may be faid of all the other timbers j
and if feveral ribband lines be formed, they may be fo
contrived that their diagonals in the body plan ftiall
be at fuch diflances, that a point for every timber be-
ing given in each diagonal, will be fufficient to deter¬
mine the form of all the timbers.
In ftalioning the timbers upon the keel for a boat,
there muft be room for two futtocks in the fpace be¬
fore or abaft @ ; for which reafon, the diftance between
thefe two timbers will be as much more than that be¬
tween the other as the timber is broad. Here it is
between 0 and (A) \ wftiich contains the diftances be¬
tween 0 and (1), and the breadth of the timber be-
fides.
The timbers being now formed, and proved by rib¬
band and water lines, proceed then to form the tranfom
faftiion-pieces, &.c. by Problem VL
This method of whole- moulding will not anfwer for
the long timbers afore and abaft. They are generally
canted in the fame manner as thofe for a ftiip. In or¬
der to render this method more complete, w-e ftiall here
deferibe the manner of moulding the timbers after they
are laid down in the mould loft, by a rifing fquare, bend,
and hollow mould.
It was ftiown before how to form the timbers by the
bend and hollow moulds on the draught. The fame
method muft be ufed in the loft; but the moulds muft
be made to their proper fcantlings in real feet and
inches. Now when they are fet, as before diredted, for
moulding each timber, let the middle line in the body
plan be drawn acrofs the bend mould, and draw a line
acrofs the hollow mould at the point where it touches
the upper edge of the keel j and let them be marked
with the proper name of the timber, as in fig. 40. The
graduations of the bend mould will therefore be exadlly
the fame as the narrowing of the breadth. Thus,
the diftance between 0 and 7 on the bend mould is
equal to the difference between the half breadth of tim¬
ber 7 and that of 0. The height of the head of each
timber is likewife marked on the bend mould, and alfo
the floor and breadth firmarks. The floor firmark is
in that point where a ftraight edged batten touches the
N n back
282
SHIP-BUILDING.
Method
of Whole-
moulding-.
back of die bend mould, the batten being fo placed
as to touch the lower edge of the keel at the fame
time. The feveral filings of the floor and heights of
the cutting-down line are marked on the riling fquare,
and the half breadth of the keel is fet off from the fide
of it.
The moulds being thus prepared, we lhall apply them
to mould timber 7. The timber being firll properly
tided to its breadth, lay the bend mould upon it, fo as
may bell anfwer the round according to the grain of
the wood j then lay the riling fquare to the bottom of
the bend mould, fo that the line drawn acrofs the bend
mould at timber 7 may coincide with the line repre-
fenting the middle of the keel upon the riling fquare 5
and draw a line upon the timber by the fide of the
fquare, or let the line be fcored or cut by a tool made
for that purpofe, called a rafeing knife (e) ; this line fo
rafed will be the fide of the keel. 1 hen the fquare
mull be moved till the fide of it comes to 7 on the
bend mould, and another line muft be raifed in by the
fide of it to reprefent the middle of the keel. Ihe
other fide of the keel mult likewife be rafed after the
fame manner, and the point 7 on the riling fquare be
marked on each fide of the keel, and a line rafed acrofs
at thefe points to reprefent the upper edge of the keel.
From this line the height of the cutting-down line at
7 muft be let up, and then the rifing fquare may be ta¬
ken away, and the timber may be raifed by the bend
mould, both infide and outfide, from the head to the
floor firmark, or it may be carried lower if neceflary.
After the firmarks and head of the timbers are markea,
the bend mould may likewife be taken away, and then the
hollow mould applied to the back of the fweep in fuch a
manner that the point 7 upon it may interfeft the upper
fide of the keel, before fet off by the rifing fquare; and
when in this pofidon the timber may be rafed by it,
which will complete the outfide of the timbers. J he
infide of the timbers may likewife be formed by the
hollowr mould. The fcantling at the keel is given, by
the cutting down before fet off. ihe mould muft be
fo placed as to touch the fweep of the infide of the tim¬
ber formed before by the bend mould, and pafs through
the cutting down point.
The ufe of the firmarks is to find the true places of
the futtocks ; for as they are cut off three or four
inches Ihort of the keel, they muft be fo placed that
the futtock and floor firmarks may be compared and co¬
incide. Notwithftanding which, if the timbers are not
very carefully trimmed, the head of the futtock may
be either within or without its proper half breadth ; to
prevent which a half breadth ftaff is made uie of.
The half breadth ftaff may be one inch fquare, and
of any convenient length. Upon one fide of it are fet
off from one end the feveral half-breadths of all the
timbers in the after body, and thofe of the fore body
upon the oppofite fide. On the other two tides are fet
off the feveral heights of the ftteer, the after body on
one fide, and the fore body on its oppofite. I wo fides
of the ftaff are marked half breadths, and the other two
fides heights of the fheer.
The ftaff being thus prepared, and the floor timbers
faflened on the keel, and levelled acrofs, the futtocks Pra<£bce
muft next be fattened to the floor timbers ; but they °‘ shll)*
mult be fet firft to their proper half breadth and height. U1 tling* ,
The half breadth llaff, with the afliflance of the ram- ^
line*, ferves to fet them to the half breadth j for as thaptc” '
the keel of a boat is generally perpendicular to the ho¬
rizon, therefore the line at which the plummet is fuf-
pended, and which is moveable on the ram line, will be
perpendicular to the keel. Whence we may by it fet
the timbers perpendicular to the keel, and then fet them
to their proper half breadths by the rtafl': and when
the two firmarks coincide, the futtock will be at its
proper height, and may be nailed to the floor timbers,
and alfo to the breadth ribband, which may be fet to
the height of the (beer by a level laid acrofs, taking the
height of the fheer by the flaff from the upper fide of
the keel 5 by which means we (hall difeover if the rib¬
band is exaftly the height of the flieer ; and if not, the
true height may be fet off by a pair of compaffes from
the level, and marked on the timbers.
Chap. VI. Of the Practice of Ship-building.
The elevation, projeftion, and half breadth plans, of
a propofed fhip being laid down on paper, we muft next
proceed to lay down thefe feveral plans on the mould
loft of the real dimenfions of the fhip propofed to be
built, and from which moulds for each feparate part are
to be made. The method of laying down thefe plans,
from what has been already faid, will, it is prefumed, be
no very difficult talk to accomplifn, as it is no more than
enlarging the dimenfions of the original draughts; and
with refpedl to the moulds, they are very eafily formed
agreeable to the figure of the feveral parts of the fhip
laid down in the mould loft.
Blocks of wood are now to be prepared upon which
the keel is to be laid. Thefe blocks are to be placed
at nearly equal diflances, as of five or fix feet, and in
fuch a manner that their uppar furfaces may be exactly
m the fame plane, and their middle in the fame ftraight
line. This laft is eafily done by means of a line ftretch-
ed a little more than the propofed length of the keel;
and the upper planes of thefe blocks may be verified by
a long and ftraight rule ; and the utmoft care and pre¬
caution muft be taken to have thefe blocks properly
bedded. Each block may be about fix or eight inches
longer than the keel is in thicknefs; their breadth from
12 L 14 inches, and their depth from a foot to a foot
and half.
The dimenfions of the keel are to be taken from the
mould loft, and the keel is to be prepared accordingly.
As, however, it is feldom poffible to procure a piece
of wood of fufficient length for a keel, efpecially if for
a large (hip, it is, therefore, for the moft part neceffary
to compofe it of feveral pieces, and thefe pieces are to
be fcarfed together, and fecurely bolted, fo as to make
one entire piece. It muft, however, be obferved, that
the pieces which compofe the keel ought to be of fuch
lengths, that a fcarf may not be oppofite to the flep of
any of the mafts. Rabbets are to be formed on each
fide of the keel to receive the edge of the planks next
to
*
(e) The term rafeing is ufed when any line is drawn by fuch an inftrument inflead of a pencil
S H I P - B U
Prafllce to it, or garboard ftrake, and the keel is to be laid on
ot p- ^|le blocks
,bui!ti'' The ftem, and the pod, and the feveral tranfoms be¬
longing to it, are to be prepared from the moulds, and
rabbeted in like manner as the keel, to receive the ends
of the plank. The tranfoms are to be bolted to the
pod at their middle, each at its refpcftive height, ta¬
ken from the elevation in the mould loft, and the ex¬
tremities of the tranfoms are to be firmly corniecfed with
the faihion-pieces. Both Item and poft are then to be
eretted, each at its refpective extremity of the keel.
The tenons at the heel of each being let into mortifes
prepared to receive them, and being fet to their proper
rakes or angles with the keel, are to be fupported by
props or thcres. Pieces of wood called dead wood are
to be laid upon and fixed to the upper fide of the keel
towards the fore and aft parts of it; the deepnefs of
the dead wood increafing with its didance from the mid¬
dle, agreeable to the propofed form of the cutting-
down line.
A line is to be dretched from the middle of the head
of the dem to that of the pod, called the ram line,
upon which is a moveable line with a plummet affixed
to it. The midfhip and other frames are to be erected
upon the keel at their proper dations. The extremities
of each frame are fet at equal didances from the vertical
longitudinal fefldon of the drip, by moving the frame
in its own plane until the plumb-line coincides with a
mark at the middle between the arms of each frame j
and although the keel is inclined to the horizon, yet
the frames may alfo be fet perpendicular to the keel by
means of the plumb-line. The (bores which are fup-
porting the frames are now to be fecurely fixed, that the
pofition of the frames may not be altered. The rib¬
bands are now to be nailed to the frames at their pro¬
per places, the more effeddually to fecure them •, and the
intermediate vacancies between the frames filled up with
Plate filliutj timbers. For a perfpedtive view of a (hip framed,
cccclxxxiv. fee ?>
to’ ’ The frames being now dationed, proceed next to
fix on the planks, of which the wales are the principal,
being much thicker and dronger than the red. The
harpins, which may be conlidered as a continuation of
the wales at their fore ends, are fixed acrofs the hawfe
pieces, and furround the fore part of the drip. The
planks that inclofe the (hip’s (ides are then brought about
the timbers; and the clamps, which are of equal thick-
nefs with the wales, fixed oppofite to the wales within
the (hip. Thefe are ufed to fupport the ends of the
beams, and accordingly dretch from one end of the (hip
to the other. The thick duff or drong planks of the
bottom within board are then placed oppofite to the
feveral fcarfs of the timbers, to reinforce them through¬
out the dup’s length. The planks employed to line the
(hip, called the celling or foot-waling, is next fixed in
the intervals between the thick duff of the hold. The
beams are afterwards laid acrofs the (hip to fupport the
decks, and are connefted to the fide by lodging and
hanging knees: the former of which are exhibited at F,
I L D I N G. 283
Plate CLXIX. See alfo the article Deck ; and the I’raAca
hanging-knees, together with the breadth, thicknefs, oi S!1,P-
and pofition of the keel, door timbers, futtocks, top- ■ .. ' <
timbers, wales, clamps, thick duff, planks within and
without, beams, decks, &c.
The cable-bits being next erefted, the carlings and
ledges, reprefented in Plate CLXIX. are difpoied be¬
tween the beams to drengthen the deck. The water¬
ways are then laid on the ends of the beams throughout
the (hip’s length, and the fpirketing fixed clofe hbove
them.—The upper deck is then planked, and the Jlring
placed under the gunnel, or planjheer, in the waid.
Then proceed next to plank the quarter-deck and
forecadle, and to fix the partners of the mads and cap-
derns with the coamings of the hatches. The breqjl-
hooks are then bolted acrofs the dem and bow within-
board, the hep of the foremad placed on the kelfon,
and the riders fayed to the infide of the timbers, to re¬
inforce the ddes in different parts of the (hip’s length.
The pointers, if any, are afterwards fixed acrofs the hold
diagonally to fupport the beams} and the crotches da¬
tioned in the after hold to unite the half timbers. The
feps of the mainmad and capderns are next placed ;
the planks of the lower decks and orlop laid •, the navel-
hoods fayed to the hawfe holes j and the knees of the
head, or cut-water, connefted to the dern. The figure
of the head is then erefted, and the trail-board and
cheeks fixed on the fide of the knee.
The taffarel and quarter-pieces, which terminate the
diip abaft, the former above and the latter on each (i,de,
are then difpofed, and the dern and quarter galleries
framed and fupported by their brackets. The pumps,
with their well, are next fixed in the hold ; the limber
boards laid on each fide of the kelfon, and the garboard
frake fixed on the (hip’s bottom next to the heel with¬
out.
The hull being thus fabricated, proceed to feparate
the apartments by bulkheads or partitions, to frame
the pert-lids, to fix the catheads and chefs-trees j to
form the hatchways and fcuftles, and fit them with pro¬
per covers or gratings. Next fix the ladders at the dif¬
ferent hatchways, and build the manger on the lower
deck, to carry off the water that runs in at the hawfe- _
holes when the (hip rides at anchor in a fea. The
bread-room and magazines are then lined ; and the
gunnel, rails, and gangways fixed on the upper part of
the (hip. The cleats, kevels, and ranges, by which the
ropes are faffened, are afterwards bolted or nailed to the
(ides in different places.
The rudder, being fitted with its irons, is next hung
to the ftern-poft, and the tiller or bar, by which it is
managed, let into a mortife at its upper end. The
feuppers, or leaden tubes, that carry the water off from
the decks, are then placed in holes cut through the
(hip’s (ides j and the fandards bolted to the beams and
(ides above the decks to which they belong. The poop
lanthorns are laft fixed upon their cranes ever the ftem, v
and the bilge-wai/s or cradles placed under the bottom to
conduct the (hip fteadily into the water whilft launching.
N n 2 As
(f) In (hips of war, which are a long while in building, it has been found that the keel is often apt to rot be¬
fore they are finilhed. Upon this account, therefore, feme builders have begun with the floor timbers, and added
the keel afterwards.
284.
S II I P - B U
ninTsTn t 'As t^ie var‘olls P*£Ces which have been mentioned
the M i" a1bover are explained at large in their proper places, it is
awl Rad- therefore fuperHucus to enter into a more particular de-
der. fcnption of them here.
Chap. VII. Of Improvements in the Majls and
Rudder.
4S
Improve- An account of a method for refloring malls of Ihips
U1 when vvou^ed> or otherwife injured, in an eafy, cheap,
and expeditious manner, by Captain Edward Pakenham
49 of the royal navy, has been publiihed in the tenth vo.
Of wound- volume of the Tran fa ft ions of the Society for the En-
Cap™ainS ^ courage.nient of Arts, &c. Captain Pakenham intro-
Pakenham. dLlces hiS invention with the following obfervations :
Page 209. “ Among the various accidents which Ihips are liable
to at lea, none call more for the attention and exertion
of the officer than the fpeedy refitting of the malls ;
and having obferved, in the courfe of lad war, the very
great dellruftion made among the lower mads of our
Chip’s from the enemy’s mode of fighting, as well as the
very great expence and delay in refitting a deet. after
an aftion, particularly acrofs the Atlantic—a very
limple expedient has fuggeded itlelf to me as a refource
m part; which appears lb very fpeedy and fecure, that
the capacity of the meaned failor will at once conceive
it. I therefore think it my duty to date my ideas of
the advantages likely to refult from it; and I lhall feel
rnylelf exceedingly happy Ihould they in any wife con¬
tribute to remedy the evil.
“ My plan, therefore, is, to have the heels of all
lower mads fo formed as to become the heads : but it
h not the intention of the above plan to have the fmall-
ed alteration made in the heels of the prefent lower
mads -y for as all line-of-battle drips mads are nine inches
in diameter larger at the heel than at the head, it will
follow, that by letting in the treffel-trees to their pro¬
per depth, the mall will form its own cheeks or hounds;
and I Hatter m^felf the following advantages will refult
from the above alteration.
Fird, I mud beg to obferve, that all linc-of-battle
drips bury one third of their lower mads, particularly
three-d: ckers ; it t! ercfore follows, that if the wounds
are in tire upper third, by turning the mad fo as to
make the heel the head, it will be as good as newr ; for,
in eight aftions I was prefent in lad war, I made the
following obfervations :
“ That in the faid aftions fifty-eight lower mads were
Wounded, and obliged to be drifted, thirty-two of
which had their wounds in the upper third, and of courfe
the drips detained until new mads were made. And
when it is confideved that a lower mad for a 90 or 74
dands government in a fum not lefs, I am informed,
than 2000I. or 2300I. the advantages acrofs the At¬
lantic refuhing from the aforelaid plan will be particu¬
larly obvious ; not to mention the probability of there
being no fit fpars in the country, wffiich was the cafe in
the indances of the Ifis and Princefs Royal ; and as
I was one of the lieutenants of the Ifis at that time,
I am more particular in the circumdance of that drip.
The Ifis had both her lower mads wounded above the
cathar pins in her aftion with the Casfar, a French 74 ;
and as there were no fpars at New York, the Ifis was
j detain/-d five weeks at that place.—HVow, if her mads
/ had been fitted on the plan I have propofed, I am corr»
I L D I N G.
fidcnt dre would have been ready for fea in 48 hours; Improve,
and as a further proof, I beg leave to add, that the ments
whole deet, on the glorious 12th of April, had not the th^
lead accident ot any confequence except what befel
their lower mads, which detained them between eight * • • t - 1
and ten weeks at Jamaica.
The delay of a drip while a new mad is making,
and probably the fleet being detained for want of that
fliip, v.inch frequently occurred in the courfe of lad
war, the taking oi fhipwrights from other work, with a
variety of inconveniences not neceffary to mention here,
mud be obvious to every officer that has made the
fmalled obfervations on fea-aftions.
“You will further obferve, that this fubditute is
formed on the mod Ample principle, fitted to the mean¬
ed capacity, and calculated to benefit all drips, from a
fird-rate down to the Imalled merchantman, in cafes of
an accident by drot, a Ipring, a rottennefs, particularly
as thefe accidents generally happen in the upper third
of the mad and above the cheeks.
“ might probably be objefted, that a difficulty and
fome danger might arife from the wounded part of the
mad being below ; but this will at once be obviated,
when it is remembered, that as the wounded part is be¬
low the wedges, it may with eafe be both fifhed, cafed,
and fecured, to any dze or degree you pleale, with the
addition of its being wedged on each deck.”
Fig. 41. reprefents a mad of a fird-rate in its proper Pla'e
date, the figures reprefen ting its thicknefs at the diffe-CCCCXCnr>
rent divifions.
Fig. 42. the fame mad inverted, the heel forming the
head, and the treffd-trees let into their proper depth, Pig- 4**
the additional thicknels of the mad forming its own
cheeks.
^g* 43-1^e propofed mad, the figures reprefenting Fig. 43.
the ihicknefs of the mad in the propoied alterations;
a, the heel made Iquare ; b, the letting in of the trtffel-
trees ; c, the third proportion of thicknefs continued up
to where the fourth is in the prefent mad, or at lead
fome little didance above the lower part of the cheeks,
which is always looked upon as the weaked part of the
mad ; and by its being fo proportioned, the mid, when
turned, will be nearly as drong in the partners as be¬
fore.
As the e\pence of a mad is much greater than is ge¬
nerally imagined, it is therefore thought proper to lub-
join the following datement of the ieveral articles ufed
in making a 74 gun (hip’s mainmad.
Value. Papers on
Naval Ar.
X1 chiteclure.
ppait a.
Fillies for a fpindle, 21 inches, 2 nails of
two mads, - - L. 101
Two fide fillies, 22 inches, 2 ditto, - 133
Fore and aft fifties, 22 inches, 2 nails of
one mad, ...
Filh 1 2iy inches, 1 nail of half a mad
> On the fore part
Iron J 3 qrs. 19 lbs.
Aries load baulk, 2 loads 22 feet,
Breadihning 1 2 loads 7 feet,
> Dantzic fir timber.
C Cheeks J 4 loads 2 feet,
\ Iron, 5 cwt. 2 qrs 24 lb.
Knees, elm timber, 13 feet.
Iron, 2 qrs. 141b.
66
29
3
32
II
20
8
o
o
3
30
J3
8
J
2
1
18
o
J7
10
J
9
5
7
4
o
2
6
Carried over B. 385 17 8
Improve¬
ments in
the M afts
and Rud-
dc.
S II I
Brought over L,
Hoops and bolts on the body, 13 cwt.
I qr. 16 lb.
TrefTel-trees, ftraight oak timber, fecond
fort, 2 loads 10 feet,
Iron, 3 qrs. 10 lb.
Crofs trees, flraight oak timber, fecond
fort, 1 load 12 feet,
Iron, 2 qrs. 2 lb.
Cap, elm timber, 1 load 24 feet,
Iron, 2 cwt. 141b.
Fallings, boliters, bollins, and Dantzic
fir, 1 load 2 feet,
Workmanfhip, -
P-B U
Value.
385 17 8
18 15
10 2
1 3
5 I4
o 14
4 6
2 19
5 7 8
78 6 o
Main-topmafl: of a 74 gun fiilp,
Main-top-gallant-maft,
513 6
50 16
8 11
Principles
of Nxml
Arrhiiec
ture, p. 50.
so
Mr Gor¬
don’s plan
01 budduig
malts.
F‘?- 44-
l'g- 45-
Fig. 46.
In order to leffen the enormous expence of marts, a
propofrl was made fome years ago to conftrufl them
hollow ; and the author having premifed feveral experi¬
ments which he had made, proceeds as follows:
“ Galileo taught us, that the refirtance or rtrength
of a hollow cylinder is to that of a full cylinder, con¬
taining the fame quantity of matter, as the total diame¬
ter of the hollow one is to the diameter of the full one •,
and thefe experiments (how us, that the rtrength or re¬
firtance of two or more pieces of wood, failened toge¬
ther at each end, and connected by a pillar, pillars, or
framing, increafes, at lead to a certain degree, cceteris
paribus, as the dittance between them and number of
pillars, provided the force is applied in the line or direc¬
tion of the pillars.
“ It is furprifing that this difeovery of Galileo has not
been made fubfervient to more ufeful purpofes. It is
particularly applicable to the conftmflion of marts, as
not requiring that the hollow cylinder (hould be made
of one folid piece of wood (g).
“ However, the foregoing experiments teach us, that
the fame advantages may be obtained by other forms be-
fides that of a cylinder •, and that perhaps not only in a
fuperior degree, but likewife with greater facility of exe¬
cution ; as by adopting a fquare figure, but more parti¬
cularly by conftrurting them of feparate pieces of wood,
placed at proper diitances from each other, in the fol¬
lowing or any other manner that may be found moft
convenient. Fig. 44, 4^, and 46. exhibit each the
tranfverfe feflion of a mart, in which the fmall circles
reprefent the trees or upright pieces of wood, and the
lines the beams or framing of wood, which are employ¬
ed at proper places and at proper diftances from each
other, for conne&ing them together. Perhaps folid
frames of wood, placed at proper didances from each
other, and filling up the whole dotted fpice, would an-
fwer better j in which event, the mart could be rtrong-
I L D I N G. 28
ly hooped with iron at thofe places, and the upright Improve-
trees formed fquare, or of any other convenient form. ments m
“ B will be evident to thofe acquainted with this fub- Rud-
je£t, that fuch marts would be greatly ftronger than ‘ der.
common ones containing the fame quantity of materials. —y——J
It is likewife evident that they would be lefs apt to
fpring, as being fupported on a more extended bafe, and
affording many conveniences for being better fecured j
and that they might be conftru&ed of fuch wood as at
prefent would be deemed altogether improper for marts:
a circumftance of importance to Britain at all times, but
more particularly now, when there is fuch difficulty in
procuring wood proper for the kind of marts in common
nfc ”
. . . , 51
An improvement in the rudder has lately taken place An im-
in feveral (hips, particularly in fome of thofe in the fer-p!iovement
vice of the Eaft India Company. It will, however, be^r fUd'
neceffary previoufly to deferibe the ufual form of the
rudder, in order to rtiow the advantages it poffeffes when
conftrufted agreeable to the improved method.
N° I. (fig. 47.) reprefents the rudder according to Paperson
the common method of conftru&ion •, in which AB is Naval Ar-.
the axis of rotation. It is hence evident that a fpaeeckiteclure,
confiderably greater than the tranGerfe feefion of thepart''
rudder at the counter mull be left in the counter for the*^'
rudder to revolve in. Thus, let CAB (N° 2.) be the
fe&ion of the rudder at the counter ; then there muft
be a fpace fimilar to CDE in the counter, in order that
the rudder may be moveable as required. Hence, to
prevent the water from wafiiing up the rudder cafe, a
rudder coat, that is, a piece of tarred canvas, is nailed
in fuch a manner to the rudder and counter as to co¬
ver the intermediate fpace : but the canvas being con¬
tinually wafhed by the fea, foon becomes brittle, and
unable to yield to the various turns of the rudder with¬
out breaking ; in which cafe the (hip is of courfe left
pervious to the waves, even of three or four feet high ;
in fatt, there are few men bred to the fea who have not
been witneffes to the bad effefts of fuch a fpace being-
left fo ill guarded againft the ftroke of the waves; and
many {hips have, with great probability, been fuppofed
to founder at fea from the quantity-of water (hipped
between the rudder and counter.
It was to remedy this deleft that the alteration above
alluded to took place •, which confilts in making the
upper part AFG (fig. 48. N° I.) of the rudder ABD Fig. 4?»..
cylindrical, and giving that part at the fame time a
cart forward, fo that the axis of rotation may by that
means be the line AD, parting as ufual from E to D,
through the centres of the braces which attach the rud¬
der to the rtern-poft, and from E to A through the
axis of the cylinder AFG, in order that the tranfverfe fec-
tion KH (N° 2.) at the counter may be a circle revolv¬
ing upon its centre ; in which cafe the fpace of half an
inch is more than fufficient between the rudder and the
counter, and confequently the necertity of a rudder coat
entirely done away. But as it was foiefeen, that if the
rudder
(g) The ftrength of thefe cylinders would be ftill further augmented by having folid pieces of wood placed
within them at proner dirtances, and fecurely faftened to them, in the fame manner, and on the fame principles,
that nature has furn.fhed reeds with joints j and for anfwering, in fome vefpefts, the fame purpofe as the pillars i® >
the experiments alluded to.
286
SHIP-BUILDING.
Load wa- rudder by an accident was unfliipped, this alteration
^ d sh^’s miSht er>danger the tearing away of the counter, the
Capacity.3 *s made much larger than the tranfverl'e feftion of
the cylindric part of the rudder, and the fpace between
filled up with pieces of wood fo fitted to the counter as
to be capable of withflanding the fhock of the fea, but
to be eafxly carried away with the rudder, leaving the
counter, under fuch circumflances, in as fafe a ftatc as
it would be agreeable in the prefent form of making rud¬
ders in the navy.
Cpiap. VIII. Up on the Pojltion of the .Load-water
Line) and the Capacity of a Ship.
See Hydro- The weight of the quantity of water difplaced by the
dynamics, bottom of a thip is equal to the weight of the fhip with
its rigging, proviflons, and every thing on board. If,
therefore, the exadh weight of the fhip when ready for
fea be calculated, and alfo the number of cubic feet in
the fhip’s bottom below the load-water line, and hence
the weight of the water fhe difplaces } it wall be
known if the load-water line is properly placed in the
draught.
Ship-Build- The pofition of the fhip in the draught may be either
efs Repo- 0n an even keel, or to draw moft water abaft 5 but an
even keel is judged to be the beft pofition in point of
velocity, when the fliip is conflrucled fuitable thereto,
that is, when her natural pofition is fuch. For when
a fhip is conftrudled to fwim by the ilern, and when
brought down to her load-water made to fwim on an
even keel (as is the cafe with moft (hips that are thus
built), her velocity is by that means greatly retarded,
- and alfo her ftrength greatly diminifhed : for the fore¬
part being brought down lower than it fhould be, and
the middle of the fhip maintaining its proper depth in
the water, the after part is by tlfat means lifted, and
the fhip is then upon an even keel : but in confequence
of her being out of her natural pofition, the after part
is always prefling downwards with a confiderable ftrain,
which will continue till the fhip’s fheer is entirely
broken, and in time would fall into its natural pofition
again : for which reafon we fee fo many fhips with bro¬
ken backs, that is, with their (beers altered in fuch a
manner that the fheer rounds up, and the higheft part
is in the midfhips.
Such are the difadvantages arifing from not paying
a due attention to thcfe points in the conftruflion of a
draught j therefore, when the load-water line is found
to be fo fituated at a proper height on the draught, ac¬
cording to the weight given for fuch a fhip, and alfo
drawn parallel to the keel, as fuppofing that to be the
beft failing trim, the next thing is to examine whether
the body is conftrufted fuitable thereto, in order to
avoid the above-mentioned ill confequences.
In the firft place, therefore, we muft divide the fhip
equally in two lengthwife between the fore and after
perpendiculars 5 and the exafl number of cubic feet in
the whole bottom beneath the load-water line being
known, we muft find whether the number of cubic feet
in each part fo divided is the fame ; and if they are
found to be equal, the body of the fhip may then be
[ • ' • • • : •
faid to be conftnufted in all refpecls fuitable to her fwim- Lcad-v/a-.
ming on an even keel, let the fhape of the body be ter Line
whatever it will j and which will be found to be her ^ 3
natural pofition at the load-water line. But if either .
of the parts fhould contain a greater number of cubic
feet than the other, that part which contains the great-
eft will fwim the moft out of the water, and confe-
quently the other will fwim deepeft, fuppofing the fhip
in her natural pofition for that conftruftion. In order,
therefore, to render the fhip fuitably ccnftrucled to the
load-water line in the draught, which is parallel to the
keel, the number of cubic feet in the lefs part muft be
fubtracled from the number contained in the greater
part, and that part of the body is to be filled out till
it has increafed half the difference of their quantities,
and the other part is to be drawn in as much : hence
the two parts will be equal, that is, each will contain
the fame number of cubic feet, and the fhip’s body will
be conftrufted in a manner fuitable to her fwimming on
an even keel.
If it is propofecl that the {hip laid down on the
draught (hall not fwim on an even keel, but draw7 more
water abaft than afore, then the fore and after parts of
the fhip’s body below the load-water line are to be
compared ; and if thefe parts are unequal, that part
which is leaf! is to be filled out by half the difference,
and the other part drawn in as much as before.
It will be neceflary, in the firfl: place, to calculate the
weight of a fhip ready equipped for fea, from the know¬
ledge of the weight of every feparate thing in her and
belonging to her, as the exaft weight of all the timber,
iron, lead, mails, fails, rigging, and in fhort all the
materials, men, provifions, and every thing elfe on board
of her, from which we (hall be able afterwards to judge
of the truth of the calculation, and whether the load-
water line in the draught be placed agreeable thereto.
This is indeed a very laborious talk, upon account of
the feveral pieces of timber, &c. being of fo many dif¬
ferent figures, and the fpecific gravity of fome of the
timber entering the conftru&ion not being precifely de¬
termined.
In order to afeertain the ■weight of the hull, the tim¬
ber is the firft thing which comes under confideration ;
the number of cubic feet of timber contained in the
whole fabric muft be found ; which wre ftiall be able to
do by help of the draught and the principal dimenfions
and fcantlings; obferving to diftinguith the different
kinds of timber from each other, as they differ confider-
ably in weight 5 then the number of cubic feet contain¬
ed in the different forts of timber being reduced into
pounds, and added, will be the weight of the timber.
In like manner proceed to find the weight of the iron,
lead, paint, &c. and the true weight of the whole will
be found.
In reducing quantity to weight, it may be obferved See Hydrtt-
that a cubic foot of oak is equal to 66 pounds, and the dynamics.
fpecific gravity of the other materials is as follows :
Water being 1000 Oak is 891.89
Lead is «■ Dry elm 702.70
Iron - 7643 Dry fir 648.64
4
^3
S H I P - B U
Load-wa¬
ter Line
and Ship’s
Capacity.
Hates
CCCCXC-
ccccxcr.
-S2 ,
Eftimate of
the weight
of the eigh¬
ty gun fliip
before laid
down.
An EJlimate of the Weigh of the Eighty Gun Ship in
Plates CCCCXC. and CCCCXCI. as filed for Sea,
with Six Months Provfons.
Weight of the Bull.
N° of Ft. N° of lb?.
Ottbtrfoaot661b-l0j4*497 3-oSo2
Fir timber at 48 lb. tol
the cubic foot _)
Elm timber at 52 lb. to^
the cubic foot
Carve work and lead work
Iron work, rudder irons, 7
chain-plates, nails, &c. ^
Pitch, tar, oakum, and7
paint - - j
Cook-room fitted with fire 7_
hearth S
Sum
4457
520
213936
27040
4651
88254
17920
16123
Ton'. Lb?.
1428 2082
95
160
3568726
12
2
39
8
171
894
7 443
1593 406
Weight of the Furniture.
N° of lbs.
Complete fet of marts and yards,
with the fpare geer
1
Anchors with their rtocks, and 7
mafter’s ftores
P‘:8SinS
Sails, complete fet, and fpare
Cables and hawfers
Blocks, pumps, and boats
Sum
5
16x000
39996
69128
3 2008
73332
620 56
Ton?. Lb''.
71 i960
17 1916
30 1928
14 648
32 J652
27 1576
437520
195 720
Weight of the Guns and Ammunition.
Guns with their carriages
Powder and Ihot, powder barrels,
&c. - - -
Implements for the powder
Ditto for guns, crows, handfpikes,")
&c. - - - \
}
377034168 714
116320
6500
21573
Sum - - - 1521427
Weight of the Officers Stores, b'c.
51 2080
2 2020
9 I4I3
Carpenter’s ftores
Boatfwain’s ftores
Gunner’s ftores
Caulker’s floras
Surgeon and chaplain’s eftefls
Sum
20187
2 11X2
8964
520C
I IO96
66559
232 I747
9 27
9 952
4 4
2 720
4 2x36
Weight of the Provifons.
Provifions for fix months for 700 7
men, with all their equipage §
Water, calks, and captain’s table
Sura
858970
933900
29 1599
383 1(>50
416 2060
1792870J800 870
I L D I N G.
Weight of the Men, b'c.
N° of lbs.
Seven hundred men with their 7
efTe£b, including the officers > 316961
and their eftedls - j
Ballaft - - 1478400
Sum
1795361
287
Load-wa¬
ter-Line
and Ship’s
Tons. Lbs. , Capacity, ^
141 1121
660
8oi 11 2X
Recapitulation.
The hull
'The furniture
Guns and ammunition
Officers ftores
Provifions
Weight of the men and ballaft:
Sum
35687261593 406
437520
521427
66559
1792870
i79536i
195 720
232 1747
29 1599
800 870
Sox X121
81824633652 1983
Agreeable to the above eftimate, we find that the
eighty gun ffiip, with every thing on board and fit for
lea, when brought down to the load-w’ater line, weighs
8,182,463 pounds, or nearly 3653 tons. It may now
be known if the load-water line in the draught be pro¬
perly placed, by reducing the immerfed part of the bo¬
dy into cubic feet. For if the eighty gun ftiip, when
brought down to the load-water line, weighs 3653
tons, the quantity of vrater difplaced muft alfo be 3653
tons: now a cubic foot of fait water being fuppofed to
weigh 74 pounds, if therefore 8182463 be divided by
74, the quotient is 110573, the number of cubical feet
which fixe muft difplace agreeable to her weight.
It is now neceflary to find the number of cubic feet
contained in the llrip’s bottom below the load-water
line by calculation. If the bottom was a regular folid,
this might be very eafily done ; but as it is otherwife,
we muft be fatisfied with the following method by ap¬
proximation, firft given by M. Bouguer.
Take the lengths of every other of the lines that re-^53^ ^
prefent the frames in the horizontal plane upon the up- ca]Cyi;Unii,
per water line 5 then find the fum of thefe together, the contents
with half the foremoft and aftermoft frames. Now mul-of the bot-
tiply that fum by the diftance between the frames, andtomo* £-
the produft is the area of the water line contained be-
tween the foremoft and aftermoft frames : then find the
area of that part abaft the after frame, which forms a
trapezium, and alfo the poll and rudder ■, find alfo the
area of that part afore the foremoft frame, and alfo of
the ftem and gripe ; then thefe areas being added to
that firft found, and the fum doubled, will be the area
of the furface of the whole water lin£. The reafon of
this rule will be obvious to thofe acquainted with the
firft principles of mathematics.
The areas of the other water line may be found in the
fame manner: then the fum of all thefe- areas, except
that of the uppermoft and lowermoft, of which only one
half of each muft be taken, being multiplied by the di¬
ftance between the water lines (thefe lines in the plane
of elevation being equidiftant from each other), and the
produft will be the folid content of the fpace contained
between the lower and load-water lines.
Add
^8 SHIP-BUILt)ING.
ter Lile' v Add ^ °f the loWef Water line to the area °f
and Ship’s ^ "PPer ride of thc keel J multiply half that fum by
Capacity. _ e dmance between them, the produft will be the fo~
" ■ kd content of that part between the lower water line
and upper edge of the keel, fuppofing them parallel to
each other. Eut if the lower water line is not parallel
to the keel, the above half fum is to be multiplied by
the diftance between them at the middle of the fhip.
The folid contents of the keel muft be next found,
by multiplying its length by its depth, and that produft
by the breadth. I hen the fum of thefe folid contents
will be the number of cubic feet contained in the im-
merfed part of the Ihip’s bottom, or that part below the
load water line.
►c
H
Determination of the number of Cubic Feet contained in
the Bottom of the Eighty Gun Ship. See Plates
CCCCXC. and CCCCXCI.
34
Applied to The fore body is divided into five, and the after bo-
ginflnp!7' dy int° ten’ eclual Parts in the Horizontal plane j be-
fides the parts contained between the foremoft timber
and the ftem, and the aftermoft timber and the poll.
The plane of elevation is alfo divided into five equal
parts by water lines drawn parallel to the keel. Thefe
water lines are alfo defcribed upon the horizontal
plane.
It is to be obferved that there muft be five inches add¬
ed to each line that reprefents a frame in the horizontal
plane for the thicknefs of the plank, that being nearly a
mean between the thicknefs of the plank next the water
and that on the lower part of the bottom.
Second Water Line abaft Dead Fiat.
'frame dead flat is 23 feet 10I inches, the
half of which is
frame (4)
frame 3
frame 7
frame n
frame 13
frame 19
frame 23
frame 27
frame 3 r
Ft. In.
frame 35 is 8 feet 6 inches, the half of
which is
11
23
23
23
23
23
23
22
20
!7
iot
lot
^ O-y
lot
H
3a
5
10
8
Sum
Diftance between the frames
Produfl:
Area of that part abaft frame 3 5
rudder and poll
Sum
4 3
219 n
10 11
2397 4
31 7
5 5
2434 4
2
Area of the 2d water line from dead flat aft 4868 8
-n
T3
-C
H
Upper Water Line abaft Dead Flat.
'frame dead flat is 24 feet 10 inches, one-
half of which is ...
frame (4) - ...
frame 3 - ...
frame 7 - - - .
frame 11
frame 15
frame 19 - . .
frame 23 - - .
frame 27 -
frame 31
frame 35 is 16 feet 3 inches, the half of
which is ^ .
Ft. In.
12
24
24
24
24
24
24
23
22
20
8
5
10
10
10
10
9i
5
10
9
11
-c
■T3
H
Third Water Line abaft Dead Fiat.
frame dead flat is 22 feet it inches—half 11
frame (4) - . _
frame 3 ...
frame 7 . _ .
frame 11
frame 13 „ _ .
frame 19 . .
frame 23 - . .
frame 27 - . _
frame 31
[frame 35 is 4 feet 3 inches—half
22
22
22
22
21
20
*9
16
11
2
it
ii
Ji
1
5
8i
31
5
H
Area of that part abaft frame 35
rudder and poft
19° 8^
10 11
2081 8
5 6
Sum -
Diftance between the frames
Produft -
Area of that part abaft frame 35
1 rudder and poft
Sum - . .
236 7
10 11
2101 7t
2
Area of the load water line from dead flat
aft - - . . 5332
Area of the 3d water line from dead flat aft 4203
Fourth Water Line abaft Dead Flat.
frame dead flat is 20 feet 1 inch—half
frame (4)
frame 3 - _
2666 21- r! 1 frame 7 - . _
frame 11
frame 15 - .
2582 8t
78 o
5 6
H
10
20
20
!9
r9
J9
°t
1
1
11
7i
o
Load-wa¬
ter Line
and Ship’s
Capacity.
Carry over
108
Brought
Load-wa*
ter Line
and Ship's
Capacity. «
”o
a
<u
Uf
PQ
Brought over
'frame 19 - - -
frame 23 -
frame 27
frame 31
.frame 35 is. 1 foot ii| inches—half
H I P - B U
Ft. In.
1809 9
17
14
IO
5
o
7§
10
11
11
Ill-
Area of that part abaft frame 35
rudder and poft
159 o
10 11
I735 9
9 9
5 o
6
2
Area of the 4th water line from dead flat aft 3501
FiftA or Lower Water Line abaft Dead Flat.
half 8
frame dead flat is 17 feet 2 inches
frame (4)
frame 3
frame 7 - _ .
frame 11
frame 15
frame 19
frame 23 .
frame 27 - - .
frame 31
.frame 35 is 1 foot i\ inches—half
Area of that part abaft frame 35
rudder and poft
03
a i
-c
H
J7
17
17
16
8
4
2
o
7
2
2
1
4
4
1
9
10
11
7i
121
10
I0*
11
Area of the 5th or lower water line from
dead flat aft
Half the area of the load water line
Area of the fecond water line
Area of the third water line
Area of the fourth water line
Half the area of the lower water line -
Sum -
Diftance between the water lines
Content in cubic feet between the lower
and load water lines
Area of the lower water line 2678
Area ofthe upper fide of the keel 206 4
1330 2
4 **
4
*339 5
 2
2678 10
2666 2i
4868 8
4203 3
3501 O
_r339 5
16578 6|
10
67695 Si
Sum - . 288-
Half . - 1442
Diflance between the lower wa*
ter line and the keel 4
I L D I N G.
Cub. feet contained between low¬
er water line and the keel 5890 6-£
Content ofthe keel, lower part of rudder,
and falfe keel . _ ’
5890
464
61
Cubic feet abaft the midflnp frame under
water when loaded . . 'ranm
Vol. XIX. Pari I. 74 50
V/>/>er or Load water Line afore Dead Flat.
Ft. In.
2%
Load-wa¬
ter Line
and Ship’s
rS
'frame dead flat is 24 feet 10 inches—half 12 5 ,Capadty-,
4)
H
frame E
frame I .
frame N - .
frame f)
.frame W is 15 feet I inch—half
Sum - - - _
Diftance between the frames
Product -
Area of the part afore frame W
Item and knee
Sum - . _
Multiply by - _ .
Area of the load water line from dead flat
forward -
24 10
24 8|
24 o
21 lof
7 64
XI5 441
10 11
*259
80
*343
2687 6
Second Water Line afore Dead Flat.
« frame dead flat is 23 feet 1 of inches—half 11 11*
23 10
•6
C3
S
-Q
D
A
H
frame E
frame I _ _ _
frame N - _ .
frame Q _
frame W is 11 feet 11 inches—half
Sum -
Diftance between the frames
Produft - .
Area of the part afore frame W, with the
ftem and knee
Sum
23 5
22 c
19 11
5 Hi
I07
10 11
II73 9
43 9
1217
Area of the fecond water line from dead flat
forward
2435 «
CJ
45
cd
-Q
QJ
Third Water Line afore Dead Flat.
frame dead flat is 22 feet li inch—half
frame E - . .
frame I
frame N - _
frame Q _ _
. frame W is 7 feet—half
II
22
21
20
l6
3
1
8
1
6
Sum -
Diftance between the frames
Product - _
Area of the part afore W, with the ftem
and gripe - _
Sum
94
10 11
1031 10
25 10
1057
Area of the third water line from dead flat
forward . .
O Q
2115 4
Fourth
29°
SHIP-BUILDING.
Load-wa*
ter Line
and Ship’s
Capacity.
Fourth Water Line afore Dead Flat.
■£ f frame dead flat is 20 feet I inch—half
.£2 | frame E
! frame I . - - -
^ j frame N
"ii j frame Q - - -
^ l, frame W is 2 feet nine inches—half
Sum - - - - -
Diftance between the frames
Product - - - -
Area of part before W, with the Item and
gripe . -
Sum - -
Area of fourth water line from dead flat for¬
ward - - -
Fifth Water Line afore Dead Flat.
f frame dead flat is 17 feet 2 inches—half
^ j frame E » - -
■a <j frame I - -
H j frame N - -
^ frame £) is 5 feet—half
Sum ....
Diftance between the frames
Produft - - - -
Area of part afore Q. - -
ftem and knee
Sum '
Area of the fifth or lower water line from
dead flat forward - - .
Area of the upper fide of the keel
Sum - - -
Half - - - #
Diftance between the lower water line and
keel
Content of the part contained between the
lower water line and the keel in cub. feet
Half of the area of the load water line
Area of the fecond water line
third water-line
fourth water-line
Half the area of the fifth or lower water line
Ft. In.
10 Oa
20 oi
*9 3
5
11 2
1 4a
78 3h
10 11
854 8
8 io|
863 6}
2
1727 il
Ft. In.
8 7
16 9
14 IO
10 9^
2 6
53 5f
10 11
583 7
26 2i
5
615 9
2
1231 6
87 4
1318 10
6S9 5
4 1
2692 7£
1343 9
2435 °
2115 4
1727 ^
6l5 9
Sum .... 8236 ill
Diftance between the water lines - 41
Cubic feet contained between the lower and Ft. In. Tonnage of
load water lines - - 33634 2-| l a
Cubic feet contained between lower water r v
line and keel ... 2692
Content of the keel and falfe keel - 196 6
Content afore midflup frame under water
when loaded - - 36523 4
Content abaft midfhip frame - 7405° 6
Content under water - - 110573 10
Weight of a cubic foot of fait water 74165.
Weight of the whole (hip with every thing
on board ... 8182463.8165.
As the weight of the fhip, with every thing on board,
found by this calculation, is equal to that found by efti-
mate ; it hence appears that the water line is properly
placed in the draught. It now only remains to find
whether the body is conftrufted fuitably thereto, that
is, whether the ftrip will be in her natural pofition when
brought down to that line. For this purpofe a perpen¬
dicular muft be eredfed 27 feet inch, abaft dead flat,
which will be the middle between the two perpendicu¬
lars and the place where the centre of gravity fnould
fall, that the (hip may fwim on an even keel. The fo-
lidity of that part of .the bottom contained between the
faid perpendicular and dead flat is then to be calculated,
which will be found to be 25846 feet 7 inches.
Solidity of the bottom afore dead flat 36523 f. 4 in.
  between the middle and dead flat 25846 7
Solid content of the fore part of the bot¬
tom - - - 62369 11
Solidity of the bottom abaft dead flat 74050 6
 between the middle and dead flat 25846 7
Solid content of the aft. part of the bot. 48203 11
 fore part of the bottom 62369 11
Difference - - - 14166
Half - - 7083
Hence the after part of the (hip’s bottom is too lean
by 7083 cubic feet, and the fore part as much too full.
The after part muft therefore be filled out until it has
received an addition of 7083 feet, and the fore part
muft be drawn in till it has loft the fame quantity, and
the bottom will then be conftrufted fuitable to the
drip’s fwimming on an even keel.
Chap. IX. Of the Tonnage of a Ship.
This is a queftion of equal importance and ‘hfficul-
ty. By the tonnage of a fhip is meant the weight of thod of cal-
every thing that can with fafety and expediency be ta- culating the
ken on board that fhip for the purpofe of conveyance j t°>™age o*
it is alfo called the flip's burthen ; and it is totally a
different from the weight of the whole as fire floats in
the water. It is perhaps bed expreffed by calling it the
loeight of the cargo. It is of importance, becaufe it is by
this that the merchant or freighter judges of the fitnefs
S H I P-B U
Tomage of of the ihip for his purpofe. By this government judge
a Ship. 0f t|le requifite for tranfport fervice, and by^ this
t.*. ^ ^ revenue charges on the fhip computed. It is no
lefs difficult to anfvver this queftion by any general rule
which ffiall be very exaft, becaufe it depends not only
on the cubical dimenuons of the flap’s bottom, but
alfo on the fcantling of her whole frame, and in ihort
on the weight of every thing which properly makes
part of a flap ready to receive On board her cargo.
The weight of timber is variable ; the fcantling of the
frame is no lefs fo. We muft therefore be contented
with an average value which is not very remote from
the truth ; and this average is to be obtained, not by
any mathematical difcuflion, but by obfervation of the
burthen or cargo actually received, in a great variety of
cafes. But fome fort of rule of calculation muft be
made out. This is and muft be done by perfons not ma¬
thematicians. We may therefore expert to find it inca¬
pable of being reduced to any principle, and that every
builder will have a different rule. Accordingly the rules
given for this purpofe are in general very whimfical,
meafures being ufed and combined in a way that feems
quite unconne&ed with ftereometry or the meafurement
of folids. The rules for calculation are even affefted
by the interefts of the two parties oppofitely concerned
in the refult. The calculation for the tonnage by which
the cuftoms are to be exaftcd by government are quite
different from the rule by which the tonnage of a tranf¬
port hired by government is computed •, and the fame
fhip hired as a tranfport will be computed near one half
bigger than when paying importation duties.
Yet the whole of this might be made a very Ample
bufinefs and very exaft. When the fhip is launched,
let her light water line be marked, and this with the
cubical contents of the immerfed part be noted down,
and be ingroffed in the deed by which the property of
the (hip is conveyed from hand to hand. The weight
of her marts, fails, rigging, and fea-ftores, is moft eafily
obtained } and every builder can compute the cubical
contents of the body when immerfed to the load water
line. The difference of thefe is unqueftionably the bur¬
then of the (hip.
It is evident from what has been already faid in the laft
chapter, that if the number of cubic feet of water which
the (hip difplaces when light, or, which is the fame, the
number of cubic feet below the light water line, found
by the preceding method of calculation, be fubtra£fed
from the number of cubic feet contained in the bottom
below the load water line, and the remainder reduced
to tons by multiplying by 74, the number of pounds in
a cubic foot of fea water, and divided by 2240, the
number of pounds in a ton, the quotient will be the
tonnage.
But as this method is very troublefome, the follow¬
ing rule for this purpofe is that which is ufed in the
king’s and merchants fervice.
Let fall a perpendicular from the forefide of the ftem
at the height of the hawfe holes (h), and another per¬
pendicular from the back of the main port: at the height
56
Common
rule.
I L D I N G. 291
of the wing tranfom. From the leng th between thefe two Tonnage of
perpendiculars deduft three-fifths of the extreme breadth a ailT-
(x), and alfo as many times 2| inches as there are feet
in the height of the wing tranfom above the upper edge
of the keel •, the remainder is the length of the keel for
tonnage. Now multiply this length by the extreme
breadth, and the produft by half the extreme breadth,
and this laft produft divided by 94 is the tonnage re¬
quired.
Or, multiply the length of the keel for tonnage by
the fquare of the extreme breadth, and the product di¬
vided by 188 will give the tonnage.
Calculation of the Tonnage of an Eighty Gun Ship.
I. According to the true method.
57
The weight of the (hip at her launching Tons. Ibs.^alcuJatm*
draught of w'ater . - 1593 40^nageofthe
The weight of the furniture 195 720 eighty gun
 (hip.
The weight of the (hip at her light water
mark - - 1788 1126
The weight of the (hip at the load w’ater
mark «■ - - 3^52
Real burthen - 1864 857
II. By the common rule.
Length from the forefide of the ftem at Ft. Inch,
the height of the hawfe holes, to the
aft fide of the main poft, at the height
of the wing tranfom - 185
Three-fifths of the extreme breadth
is - - . 29 f. 9i in.
Height of the wing tranfom
is 28 f. 4 in. which mul¬
tiplied by 2 a inches is 6 8^
Sum 36 6 36
10
Length of the keel for tonnage 149
Extreme breadth - - 49
Produft - . - - 74*6 I0i
Half the extreme breadth - 24 10
94)184185 81
Burthen according to the common
rule - - 1959 929
Real burthen - - 1864 857
Difference - - 95 72 gs
Hence an eighty gun (hip will not carry the
nage Are is rated at by about 95 tons. As the body of™”^11,^
this (hip is fuller than in (hips of war in general, there istonnage 0f
therefore a nearer agreement between the tonnages found fhips of war
by the two different methods. It may be obferved that gieatei-,
(hips of war carry lefs tonnage than they are rated at by
the common rule, and that moft merchants (hips carry | ^ t}ian
O o 2 a the truth.
(h) In the merchant fervice this perpendicular is let fall from the fore fide of the ftem at the height of the wing
tranfom, by reafon of the hawfe-holes being generally fo very high in merchant drips, and their items alfo having a
great rake forward.
(1) The breadth underitood in this place is the breadth from outfide to outfide of the plank.
S HI P-B U
of a great deal more. In confirmation of this, it is thought
' proper to fubjoin the dimenfions of feveral Ihips, with
the tonnage calculated therefrom.
I. Audacious offeventy-four guns.
Length on the gun deck - j68 f. o in.
Length of the keel for tonnage - 138 o
Extreme breadth - . 46 9
Depth of the hold - I9 9
Launching draught of water ^ ^ 0
Load draught of water ^ abaft 21 6
The weight of the (hip at her launching
draught of water 1509 t. 6781bs.
The weight of the furniture 120 1500
Weight of the fhip at her light wTater
mark - - .
Weight of the fhip at her load water
mark
Real burthen
By the common rule.
Length of the keel for tonnage
Extreme breadth
Product - - _
Half the extreme breadth
1629 2178
2776 498
1146 560
138 f. o in.
46 9
64Ji
23
4*
94)150803
Tonnage according to the common rule 1604 643
Real burthen - - 1146 560
Difference .
I L D I N G.
Tonnage
Real tonnage
806 1096 Tonnage ef
984 1670 | a Ship.
Difference
3. A Cutter.
Length of the keel for tonnage
Extreme breadth
Launching draught of water
Load draught of water 4 a^or,.e
0 \ abaft
The weight of the cutter at her launch-
ing
Weight of the furniture
Weight of the cutter at her light water
mark
Weight of the cutter at her load water
mark
J?8 574
58 f. cin.
29 o
5 10
9 8
9 o
12 o
147 t. 640 lbs.
9 *99
Real burthen
156 839
266 1970
no 1131
By the common rule.
Keel for tonnage
Extreme breadth
Produft
Half extreme breadth
Tonnage by the common rule
Real tonnage
58 f.
29
1682
94)24389
458 83 Difference
259 1024
no 1131
148 2133
2. An Kajl Indiaman.
Length between the perpendiculars for¬
ward and aft
Length of the keel for tonnage
Extreme breadth
Depth in hold
Launching draught of water
Load draught of water ^
The rveight of the fhip at her launching
draught of water _ - 6o2t. 2ii61bs
The weight of the furniture - 50 124
Weight of the fhip at her light water
mark - -
Weight of the fhip at her load water
mark - - 1670
132f. Sin.
IOC o
38 o
16 o
7 10
II 10
19 8
20 8
Real burden
By the common rule.
Keel for tonnage
Extreme breadth
Produift
Half extreme breadth ’
984 1670
105 f.
38
3999
J9
94)758io
The impropriety of the common rule is hence mani-
feft, as there can be no dependence on it for afeertaining
the tonnage of veffels.
We fhall now fubjoin the following experimental
method of finding the tonnage of a fhip.
Conftrudl a model agreeable to the draught of the Experf-
propofed fhip, to a fcale of about one fourth of an inch mental me*
to a foot, and let the light and load water lines bethod.ofde~
marked on it. Then put the model in water, and load
it until the furface of the water is exaflly at the light nageof"
water line j and let it be fufpended until the water veflefs*
drains off, and then weighed. Now fince the weights
of fimilar bodies are in the triplicate ratio of their ho¬
mologous dimenfions, the weight of thesAip when light
is, therefore, equal to the produft of the cube of the
number of times the fhip exceeds the model by the
weight of the model, which is to be reduced to tons.
Hence, if the model is conftrufted to a quarter of an
inch fcale, and its weight expreffed in ounces j then to
the conflant logarithm 0,4893556, add the logarithm of
the weight of the model in ounces, and the fum will
be the logarithm of the weight of the fhip in tons.
Again, the model is to be loaded until the furface of
the water coincides with the load water line. Now the.
model being weighed, the weight of the fhip is to be
found by the preceding rule : then the difference be¬
tween the weights of the fhip when light and loaded
is the tonnage required.
It
SHIP-BUILDING.
Tonnage of It will alfo be worth while to add the following ex-
. i a6l rule of Mr Parkins, who was many years foreman
of the Ihipwrights in Chatham dockyard.
i. For Men of War.
Take the length of the gun-deck from the rabbet of
the ftem to the rabbet of the ftern-polt. of this is
to be affumed as the length for tonnage, — L.
Take the extreme breadth from outfide to outfide of
the plank •, add this to the length, and take ^ of the
fmn $ call this the depth for tonnage, D.
Set up this height from the limber Itrake, and at
that height take a breadth alfo from outfide to outfide
of plank in the timber when the extreme breadth is
found, and another bi'eadth in the middle between that
and the limber ftrake; add together the extreme
breadth and thefe two breadths, and take y of the fum
for the breadth for tonnage, = D.
Multiply L, D, and B together, and divide by 49.
The quotient is the burthen in tons.
The following proof may be given of the accuracy
of this rule. Column 1. is the tonnage or burthen by
the king’s meafurement ; col. 2. is the tonnage by this
rule ; and, col. 3. is the weight adlually received on
board thefe fifips at Blackftakes:
Victory
London
Arrogant
Diadem
Adamant
Dolphin
Amphion
Daphne
100 guns.
90
74
64
50
44
32
20
2162
1845
1614
1369
io44
879
667
429
i839
IJ75
1308
1141
870
737
554
329
1840
^77
I3,4
965
886
75S
549
374
2. For Ships of Burthen.
Take the length of the lower deck from the rabbet
•f the ftem to the rabbet of the ftern-poft j then yj of
this is the length for tonnage, rz L.
Add the length of the lower deck to the extreme
breadth from outfide to outfide of plank ; and take T3T
of the fum for the depth for tonnage, rr: D.
Set up that depth from the limber ftrake, and at this
height take a breadth from outfide to outfide. Take
another at y of this height, and another at y of the
height. Add the extreme breadth and thefe three
breadths, and take the 4th of the fum for the breadth
for tonnage, =r B.
Multiply L, D, and B, and divide by 36!. The
quotient is the burthen in tons.
This rule refts on the authority of many fuch trials,
as the following:
King’s
Meafm.
Northington Indiaman 676
Granby Indiaman 786
Union coallier 193
Another coallier 182
Rule.
i°53
1179
266
2 54
A&ually
recd. on bd.
1064
JI79
289
277
Chap. X. Of the Scale of Solidity.
By this fcale the quantity of water difplaced by the
bottom of the fhip, for which it is conrtru&ed, anfwer-
ing to a given draught of water, is eafily obtained 3 and
alfo the additional weight necefiary to bring her down
to the load water line.
In order to conftrudt this fcale for a given Ihip, it is
neceflary to calculate the quantity of water difplaced by
the keel, and by that part of the bottom below each
water line in the draught. Since the areas of the feve-
ral water lines are already computed for the eighty gun
fliip laid down in Plates CCCCXC. and CCCCXCI.
the contents of thefe parts may hence be eafily found
for that Ihip, and are as follow.
293
Scale of
Solidity.
Draught of water.
Water difplaced in
Cubic feet. I tons. lbs.
Keel and falfekeel
Dift. bet. keel 1
andjth w. line 3
Sum
Dift. 5th and!
4th w. line 3
Sum
Dift. 4th and 1
3d w. line 3
Sum
Dift. 3d and
2d w. line J,
Sum
Dift. 2d andl
ill w. line 3
Sum
2 f. 3 in.
4 1
6 4
4 1
^ 5
4 1
14 6
4 1
18 7
4 1
22 8
660.9
8583.il
9243ao!
18657.8yy
279oi*7t?
23574-6H
51476.2^
27812.1 ^
79288.3^
3I285-7txf
II0573aii
21 1855
283 1233
3°5 848
6x6 828
921 1676
778 I795
1700 1231
9x8 1775
2619 766
XO33 I2i8
3652 1984
Conftruft any convenient fcale of equal parts to re-
prefent tons, as fcale N° 1. and another to reprefent
feet, as N° 2.
Draw the line AB (fig. 36.) limited at A, but pro-r
duced indefinitely towards B. Make AC equal to the 60 ^
depth of the keel, 2 feet 3 inches from fcale N° 2. and'Conftruc-
through C draw a line parallel to AB, which will re- tion of the
prefent the upper edge of the keel 3 upon which fet off*?1.1® °/io'
Cc equal to 21 tons 1855 lbs. taken from fcale N° !• [h^ihipof
Again, make AD equal to the diftance between the eighty
lower edge of the keel and the fifth water line, namely, guns.
6 feet 4 inches, and a line drawn through D parallel to
AB will be the reprefentation of the lower water line 3.
and make D b equal to 305 tons 848 lbs. the corre-
fponding tonnage. In like manner draw tire other wa¬
ter lines, and lay off the correfponding tonnages ac¬
cordingly : then through the points A, c, b, e, f g,
//, draw the curve Acbefgh. Through h draw h B
perpendicular to AB, and it will be the greateft limit
of the quantity of water expreffed in tons difplaced by
the bottom of the fliip, or that when the is brought
down to the load water line. And fince the thip dif-
places 1788 tons at her light water mark, take there¬
fore that quantity from the fcale N° 1. which being
laid upon AB from A to K, and KL drawn perpendi¬
cular to AB, will be the repiefentation of the light
watea
294
Scale of water line for tonnage. Hence the fcale will be com-
. Soll;llty- pleted.
6l Let it now be required to find the number of cubic
Ufe of the feet difplaced when the draught of water is 17 feet, and
above fcale. the number of additional tons neceffary to bring her
down to the load water mark.
Take the given draught of water 17 feet from the
fcale N° 2, which laid from it will reach to I; through
which draw the line IMN parallel to AB, and inter¬
fering the curve in AC j then the difiance IM applied
to the fcale N° r, will meafure about 2248 tons, the dif-
placement anfwerable to that draught of water } and
MN applied to the fame fcale will meafure about 1405
tons, the additional weight neceflfary to bring her down
•to the load water mark. Alfo the neareft diftance be¬
tween M and the line KL wall meafure about 460 tons,
the weight already on board.
It will conduce very much to facilitate this operation
to divide KB into a fcale of tons taken from the fcale
N° r, beginning at B, and alfo h'L, beginning at h.
Then wdien the draught of water is taken from the fcale
N° 2, and laid from it to I, as in the former example,
and IMN drawn parallel to AB, and interfering the
curve in M. Now through M draw' a line perpendicu¬
lar to AB, and it wrill meet KB in a point reprefenting
the number of tons aboard, and alfo h L in a point de¬
noting the additional weight neceffary to load her.
Again, if the weight on board be given, the corre-
fponding draught of water is obtained as follows.
Find the given number of tons in the fcale KB,
through which draw a line perpendicular to AB ; then
through the point of interferion of this line with the
curve draw another line parallel to AB. Now the
diftance between A and the point where the parallel
interfered AH being applied to the fcale N° 2, will
give the draught of water required.
_ Any other cafe to which this fcale may be applied
will be obvious.
Book II. Containing the Properties of Ships, &c.
Chap. I. Of the Equilibrium of Ships.
Since the preffure of fluids is equal in every direc¬
tion, the bottom of a (hip is therefore ared upon by
the fluid in which it is immerfed ; which preffure, for
any given portion of furface, is equal to the produr of
that portion by the depth and denfity of the fluid : or
it is equal to the weight of a column of the fluid whefe
bafe is the given furface, and the altitude equal to the
difiance between the furface of the fluid and the centre
of gravity of the furface preffed. Hence a floating
body is in equilibrio between two forces, namelv, its
gravity and the vertical preffure of the fluid ; the hori¬
zontal preffure being deftroyed.
Piate Let ABC (fig. be any body immerfed in a fluid
ccccxciv, vvhofe line of floatation is GH : hence the preffure of
the fluid is exerted on every portion of the furface of the
immerfed part AFCH. Let EF, CD be anv two fmall
portions contained between the lines ED, FC, parallel
to each other, and to the line of floatation GH : then
SHIP-BUILDING.
Ships.
the preffure exerted upon EF is expreffed by EF X IE, Equilibri-
IK being the depth of EF or CD ; the denfity of the ur*i of
fluid being iuppofed equal to 1. In like manner the 1
preffure upon CD is equal to CDxIK. Now fince the
preffure is in a dire£tion perpendicular to the furface,
draw therefore the line EL perpendicular to EF, and
DM perpendicular to DC, and make each equal to the
depth IK, below the furface. Now the effort or preffure
of the fluid upon EF will be expreffed by EF x EL,
and that upon CD by CD X DM. Complete the paral¬
lelograms ON, OS, and the preffure in the direction
EL is refolved into EN, EO, the firft in a horizontal,
and the fecund in a vertical direftion. In like manner,
the preffure in the direction DM is refolved into the
preflures DS, Df). Hence the joint effect of the pref-
fures in the horizontal and vertical direflions, namely,
EF x EN, and EF X EO, will be equal to EF X EL :
For the fame reafon, CD X DP-}-CD X HQ^CD X
DM. But the parts of the preffures in a horizontal di-
reflion EFx EN, and CD xDP, are equal. For, be-
caufe of the fimilar triangles ENL, ERF, and DPM,
. EL EF DM DC TT
DSC, we have —=— and Hence
DM X CS=DP X DC,and EL X FRzrrEN X EF. Now
fince EL—DM, and FR—CS, therefore EL X FR¬
OM x CS=DP x DC=EN X EF. Hence fince EF x
EN~DP x CD, the effefts of the preffures in a horizon¬
tal direction are therefore equal and contrary, and con-
fequently deftroy each other.
The preffure in a vertical dire£lion is reprefented by
EO X EF, DO X DC, &c. which, becaufe of the fimi¬
lar triangles EOF, ERF, and DEM, DSC, become
EL x ER, DM x E>S, &c. or IK x ER, IK x E>S, &c.
By applying the fame reafoning to every other portion
of the furface of the immerfed part of the body, it is
hence evident that the fum of the vertical preffures is
equal to the fum of the correfponding dilplaced columns
of the fluid.
Hence a floating body is preffed upwards by a force The weight
equal to the weight of the quantity of water difplaced ^lP
and fince there is an equilibrium between this force and th^of the
the weight of the body, therefore the weight of a float-quantity of
ing body is equal to the weight of the difplaced fluid water dif-
(k). Hence alfo the centre of gravity of the bodyP'ace^-
and the centre of gravity of the difplaced fluid are in
the fame vertical, otherwife the body would net be atcentreof
reft. gravity of
both are in
Chap. II. Upon the Efforts of the Water to bend a
Feffel.
When it is faid tliat tile prclTure of the water upon Thtovie
the immerfed part of a veffel counterbalances its weight, complette,
it is fuppofed that the different parts of the veffel are fo bar
clofely connefted together, that the forces which tranih'ted
upon its furface are not capable of producing any change, by VVati'on.
For we may eafily conceive, if the connexion of the
parts were not fufficiently firong, the veffel would run
the rifk either of being broken in pieces, or of fuffering
fome alteration in its figure.
The veffel is in a fituation fimilar to that of a rod
AB
62
(k) Upon this principle the weight and tonnage of the 80 gun ihip laid down were calculated.
SHIP-BUILD IN G»
Efforts of
the Water
to bend a
Veflel.
Plate
ccccxcv,
Fig. 51.
64
The caufe
of a fiii p’s
hogging.
and fag-
ging-
Praciicnl
Seaman-
Jbip, p. ij
AB (fig. 50O, which being afted upon by the forces
A a, Cc, Dd, may be maintained in equilibrio,
provided it has a fufficient degree of itiffnefs : but as
foon as it begins to give way, it is evident it muft bend
in a convex manner, fince its middle would obey the
forces C c and D d, while its extremities would be ac¬
tually drawn downwards by the forces A a and B b.
The veffel is generally found in luch a lunation ; and
fince fimilar efforts continually aft vvhilft the velf-1 is
immerfed in the water, it happens but too often that
the keel experiences the bad eftedt of a drain. It is
therefore very important to inquire into the true caufe
of this accident.
For this purpofe, let us conceive the velfel to be di¬
vided into two parts by a tranfverfe fedlion through
the vertical axis of the velfel, in which both the centre
of gravity G (fig. 51.) of the whole veflel and that of
the immerfed part are Ihuated : fo that one of them
will reprefent the head part, and the other that of the
Hern, each of which wall be conlidered feparately. Let
g be’the centre of gravity of the entire weight of the
fir ft, and 0 that of the immerfed part correfponding.
In like manner, let y be the centre of gravity of the
whole after part, and w that of its immediate portion.
Now it is plain, that the head will be adled upon by
the two forces g m and 0 n, of which the firft will prefs
it down, and the latter pufli it up. In the fame man¬
ner, the Item will be prefled down by the force y p, and
puftied by the force mv. But thefe four forces will
maintain themfelves in equilibrium, as well as the total
forces reunited in the points G and O, which are equi¬
valent to them ; but whilft neither the forces before
nor thofe behind fall in the fame direction, the veffel
will evidently fuftain efforts tending to bend the keel
upwards, if the two points 0 u are nearer the middle
than the two other forces g tn and y^. A contrary
effeft would happen if the points 0 and a were more dii-
tant from the middle than the points g and y.
But the firft of thefe two caufes ufually takes place
jilmoft in all veffels, fince they have a greater breadth
towards the middle, and become more and more narrow
towards the extremities ; whilft the weight of the veffel
is in proportion much more confiderable towards the
extremities than at the middle. From whence we fee,
that the greater this difference becomes, the more alfo
will the veffel be fubjeft to the forces which tend to
bend its keel upwards. It is therefore from thence
that we muft judge how much ftrength it is neceffary to
give to this part of the veffel, in order to avoid fuch a
confequence.
If other circumftances would permit either to load the
veffel more in the middle, or to give to the part immer¬
fed a greater capacity torvards the head and Item, finch
an effeti would no longer be apprehended. But the
deftination of moft veffels is entirely oppofite to fuch an
arrangement: by which means we are obliged to ftreng th¬
en the keel as much as may be neceffary, in order to
avoid fuch a difafter.
We ftrall conclude this chapter with the following
pra&ical obfervations on the hogging and fagging of
{hips by Mr Hutchinfon of Liverpool:
“ When {hips with long floors happen to be laid a-
dry upon mud or fand, which makes a falid refiftance
' againft the long ftraight floors amidfhips, in comparifon
with the two ftiarp ends, the entrance and run meet with
295
little fupport, but are prefled down lower than the flat Efforts of
of the floor, and in proportion hogs the fliip amid- !^e vvater
{hips which is too well known from experience to oc-
caixon many total Ioffes, or do fo much damage by
hogging them, as to require a vaft deal of trouble and
expence to fave and repair them, fo as to get the hog
taken out and brought to their proper flreer again : and
to do this the more effedlually, the owners have often
been induced to go to the expence of lengthening them y
and by the common method, in proportion as they add
to the burden of thefe {hips, by lengthening their too
long ftraight floors in their main bodies amidfhips, fo
much do they add to their general weaknefs to bear
hardfhips either on the ground or afloat; for the fcant-
ling of their old timber and plank is not proportionable
to bear the additional burden that is added to them.
“ But defebts of this kind are beft proved from real
and inconteftable facts in common pradtice. At the
very time I was writing upon this fubjedt, I was called
upon for my advice by the commander of one of thofe
ftrong, long, ftraight floored {hips, who was in much
trouble and diftradtion of mind for the damage his fliip
had taken by the pilot laying her on a hard, gentle {lop¬
ing fand, at the outfide of our docks at Liverpool, where
it is common for {hips that will take the ground to lie
for a tide, when it proves too late to get into our wet
docks. After recommending a proper {hip carpenter, I
went to the fliip, which lay with only a fmall keel, yet
was greatly hogged, and the butts of her upper works
ftrained greatly on the lee fide ; and the feams of her
bottom, at the lower futtock heads, vaftly opened on the
weather fide : all which ftrained parts were agreed upon
not to be caulked, but filled with tallow, putty, or clay,
&c. with raw bullocks hides, or canvas nailed with bat-
tons on her bottom, which prevented her finking with
the flow of the tide, without hindering the preffure of
water from righting and clofing the. feams again as {he
floated, fo as to enable them to keep her free with
pumping. This veffel, like many other inftances of
{hips of this conftrublion that I have known, was faved
and repaired at a very great expence in our dry repair¬
ing docks. And that their bottoms not only hog up¬
wards, but fag (or curve) downwards, to dangerous and
fatal degrees, according to the ftram or preffure that
prevails upon them, will be proved from tne follcuAing
fadts:
“ It has been long known from experience, that when
flilps load deep with very heavy cargoes or materials
that are flowed too low, it makes them fo very labour-
fome at fea, when the waves run high, as to roll away '
their mails 5 and after that misfortune caufes them to
labour and roll the more, fo as to endanger their work¬
ing and llraining themfelves to pieces : to prevent
which, it has been long a common prablice to leave
a great part of their fore and after holds empty, and to
flow them as high as poffible in the main body at mid-
fhips, which caufes the bottoms of thefe long ftraight-
floored {hips to fag downwards, in proportion as the
weight of the cargo flowed there exceeds the preflure of
the water upwards, fo much as to make them danger-
oufly and fatally leaky.
“ I have known many inflances of thofe ftrong ftnps
of 500 or 600 tons burdens built with long ftraight
floors, on the eaft coaft of England, for the coal and
timber trade, come loaded with timber from the Baltic
to .<
'296
SHIP.BUILDING.
YhffwS0f t0 ^,'verP00^ where they commonly load deep with
to bendT r0Ck ^alt» w^ic^ ’1S t0° heavy to fill their holds, fo that
Veffd. *°r the above reafons they flowed it high amidfhips,
v—~v—^ an(l left large empty fpaces in their fore and after holds,
which caufed their long ftraight floors to fag down-
w7ards, fo much as to make their hold ftaunchions amid-
fliips, at the main hatchway, fettle from the beams three
or four inches, and their mainmafls fettle fo much as
to oblige them to fet up the main rigging when rolling
hard at fea, to prevent the marts being rolled away j and
they were rendered fo leaky as to be obliged to return
to Liverpool to get their leaks flopped at great expence.
And in order to fave the time and expence in difcharg-
ing them, endeavours were made to find out and flop
their leaks, by laying them alhore dry on a level fand ;
but without effedl: for though their bottoms wrere thus
fagged down by their cargoes when afloat, yet when
they came a-dry upon the fand, fome of their bottoms '
hogged upwards fo much as to raife their mainmafts and
pumps fo high as to tear their coats from their decks j
fo that they have been obliged to difcharge their car¬
goes, and give them a repair in the repairing dock, and
in fome to double their bottonas, to enable them to carry
their cargoes with fafety, flowed in this manner. From
this caufe I have known one of thefe ftrong fhips to
founder.
_ “ Among the many inftances of fhips that have been
diftreffed by carrying cargoes of lead, one failed from
hence bound to Marfeilles, which was foon obliged to
put back again in great diftrefs, having had four feet
water in the hold, by the commander’s account, owing
to the fliip’s bottom fagging down to fuch a degree as
made the hold ftaunchions fettle fix inches from the
lower deck beams amidfhips ; yet it is common with
thefe long ftraight floored fhips, w'hen thefe heavy car¬
goes are difcharged that make their bottoms fag down,
then to hog upwards : fo that when they are put into a
dry repairing dock, with empty holds, upon ftraight
blocks, they commonly either fplit the blocks clofe fore
and aft, or damage their keels there, by the w’hole
xveight of the fliip lying upon them, when none lies up¬
on the blocks under the flat of their floors amidfhips,
that being hogged upwards; which was the cafe of this
fhip’s bottom j though fagged downwards fix inches by
her cargo, it wras now found hogged fo much that her
keel did not touch the blocks amidfhips, which occafion-
ed fo much damage to the after part of the keel, as to
oblige them to repair it j which is commonly the cafe
with thefe fhips, and therefore deferving particular
notice.”
In order to prevent thefe defeats in fhips, “ they
fhould all be built with their floors or bottoms length-
wife, to form an arch with the proje£ling part down¬
wards, which will naturally not only contribute greatly
to prevent their taking damage by their bottoms hog¬
ging and ftraining upwards, either aground or afloat, as
has been mentioned, but will, among other advantages,
be a help to their failing, fleering, flaying, and waring.”
Chap. III. Of the Stability of Ships.
When a veffel receives an impulfe or preffure in a
horizontal direftion, fo as to be inclined in a fmall
degree, the vefiel will then either regain its former
pofition as the preffure is taken off, and is in this cafe
i
faid to be poffeffed of ft ability 5 or it will continue in Stability of
its inclined flate ; or, laftly, the inclination will increafe Sh'Ps-
until the veffel is overturned. With regard to the firft' 
Cafe, it is evident that a fufficient degree of liability is
neceffary in order to fuftain the efforts of the wind j but
neither of the other two cafes mull be permitted to
have place in veffels.
Let CED (fig. 52.) be the feflion of a fhip palling Fig. 5a.
through its centre of gravity, and perpendicular to the *
flieer and floor plans j which let be in equilibrium in a
fluid ; AB being the water line, G the centre of gra¬
vity of the whole body, and g that of the immerfed
part AEB. Let the body receive now a very fmall
inclination, fo that a E £ becomes the immerfed part,
and y its centre of gravity. From y draw y M perpen¬
dicular to a b, and meeting g G, produced, if neceffary,
in M. If, then, the point M thus found is higher
than G the centre of gravity of the whole body, the
body will, in this cafe, return to its former pofition,
the preffure being taken off. If the point M coin¬
cides wdth G, the veffel will remain in its inclined
flate ; but if M be below G, the inclination of the
veffel will continually increafe until it is entirely over-
fet.
The point of interfe&ion M is called the metaccnter,
and is the limit of the altitude of the centre of gravity
of the whole veffel. Whence it is evident, from what
has already been faid, that the liability of the veffel in-
creafes with the altitude of the metacenter above the
centre of gravity : But when the metacenter coincides
with the centre of gravity, the veffel has no tendency
whatever to move out of the fituation into which it may
be put. I hus, if the veffel be inclined either to the right
or left fide, it will remain in that pofition until a new
force is impreffed upon it: in this cafe, therefore, the
veffel would not be able to carry fail, and is hence un¬
fit for the purpofes of navigation. If the metacenter
is below the common centre of gravity, the veffel will
inftantly overfet.
As the determination of the metacenter is of the ut-
moft importance in the conftrudlion of fhips, it is there¬
fore thought neceffary to illuftrate this fubjed more par¬
ticularly.
Let AEB (fig. 52.) be a feflion of a (hip perpen¬
dicular to the keel, and alfo to the plane of elevation,
and parting through the centre of gravity of the fliip,
and alfo through the centre of gravity of the immerfed
part, which let be ^.
Now let the fhip be fuppofed to receive a very fmall
inclination, fo that the line of floatatidn is a, b, and y
the centre of gravity of the immerfed part a E £. From
y draw y M perpendicular to a b, and interfering GM
in M, the metacenter, as before. Hence the preffure of
the w’ater will be in the direflion y M.
In order to determine the point M, 'the metacenter,
the pofition of y with refpe6t to the lines AB and g G,
muft be previoufly afeertained. For this purpofe, let
the fhip be fuppofed to be divided into a great number
of feftions by planes perpendicular to the keel, and pa¬
rallel to each other, and to that formerly drawn, thefe
planes being fuppofed equidiftant. Let AEB (fig. 55.) Fig. 53.
be one of thefe feftions, g the centre of gravity of the
immerfed part before inclination, and y the centre of
gravity of the immerfed part when the fhip is in its
inclined ftate j the diftance^y between the two centres
of
Su'SiUty'of of gravity m each feftion is to be found. Let AB be
. 6h’^‘ . the line of floatation of the fltip when in an upright
Bate, and a b the water line w'hen inclined. Then, be*
caufe the weight of the Arp remains the fame, the
quantity of water difplaced will alfo be the fame in both
cafes, and therefore AEBrrctf E by each fuflaining the
fame part of the whole weight of the fliip. From each
of thefe take the part AE b, which is common to
both, and the remainders AO a, BO b will be equal ;
and which, becaufe the inclination is fuppofed very final!,
may be confidered as reftilineal triangles, and the point
O the middle of AB.
Now, let H, I, K, be the centres of gravity of the
fpaces AO a, AE and BO refpeftivelv. From
thefe points draw the lines H /$, I z, and K k, perpen¬
dicular to AB, and let IL be drawn perpendicular to
EO. Now to afcertain the diftance y<y of the centre
of gravity y of the part a Y.b from the line AB, the
momentum of a E £ with refpecf to this line muft be
put equal to the .difference of the momentums of the
Par^s AE b, AO <7, which are upon different fides of
Melba- S AI? * A^ence “KbXyq, or AEB xyq~^b
niquet art. ^ 1 1 a X H A. But fince g is the common centre
of gravity of the two parts AE b, BO b, we have there¬
fore AEB xj-0-AEZ>xIf+BO£xK£. Hcnce
by expunging the term AE 6x1**from each of thefe
equations, and comparing them, we obtain AEBXytf
= AEB x^O—BO 6 x K k—AO* x H A
Now, fince the triangles AO a, BO b, are fuppofed
infinitely fmall, their momentums or produrfs, bv the
infinitely little lines H/z, K k, will alfo be infinitely
finail with refpeft to AEBx^O ; which therefore be-
ing rejedled, the former equation becomes AEB X y y
=r AEB xg o, and hence yq—gQ. Whence the
centres of gravity y,g, being at equal diftances below
AB, the infinitely little line yg is therefore perpendicu¬
lar to EO. For the lame reafon g y, fig. $2. maybe
confidered as an arch of a circle wrhofe centre is 1VI.
do deteimine the value of g y, the momentum of
aEb with refpefl to EO muft be taken, for the fame
reafon as before, and put equal to the momentums of
the two parts AO <7, AE b; and we fliall then have
* E b xgy, or AEB x^ y = AEB x IL-f-AO z? x 06.
But fince g is the common centre of gravity cf the two
fpaces AE 6, BO 6, we fliall haveAE6xIL—BO 6
XO£—O, or AP:6xIL=:B06x0L Hence AEB
X<r y~BO 6 X O 6-f~AO Z7 X O /z—2 B06x06; be¬
caufe the two triangles AOzz, BO6 are equal, and that
the diftances 0£, 0 6, are alfo evidently equal.
Let x be the thicknels of the feclion reprefented bv
ABC.^ Then the momentum of this fe&ion will be
2 BO 6 X a? xO k, which equation wall alfo ferye for
each particular feftion.
Now let f reprefent the fum of the momentums of
all the fe<Tons. Henee f, AEB x x X g y~f, 2.
B0 6x v XOL Now the firft member being the
fum of the momentums of each fe&ion, in proportion
to a plane pafting through the keel, ought therefore to
be equal to the (urn of all the feflions, or to the volume
of the immerfed part of the bottom multiplied by the
diftance g y. Hence V reprefenting the volume, we
fhall have V X.? y=/ 2 BO 6 x *0 6.
^ In order to determine the value ot the fecond member
of this, equation, it may be remarked, that when the
fltip is inclined, the original plane of floatation CBPQ
Vol. NIX. Part I,
SHIP- BUILD I MG. 2p7
(fig. 54.). becomes CbfiQ. Now the triangles NI «, Stability of
L0 6, being the fame as thofe in figures 52. and ifj. 5 Ship*,
and as each of thefe triangles has one angle equal, they^* v
may, upon account of their infinite fmallnefs, be confi- S* 54*
dered as fimilar ; and hence BO 6 : NI zz : : OBj*
IN,
whence x NI zz.
INj*
Moreover, we
have (fig. 53.) OB, for the points K and 6
may be confidered as equidiftant from the point O :
whence BO 6 x O x NI n»
I NY
Hence Vy=f, ^2£-| X^XNI zz. From* this e,
INj*
quation the value of^y is obtained.
To find the altitude g M (fig. 55.) of the meta^J*. sst
center above the centre ot gravity of the immerfed part
of the bottom, let the arc NS be deferibed from the
centre I with the radius IN; then NT zzrzi^J^. Nou,
2
fince the two ftraigbt lines y M, g-M are perpendicular
to a n and AN refpe&ively, tl e angles M and NI zz
are.therefore equal : and the infinitely little portion gyr
which is perpendicular to^ M, may be confidered as an
arch^deferibed from the centre M. Hence the two fee-
tors NIS, g M y are fimilar ; and therefore ^ M : ^y : ;
INXgy ,
and consequently
IN : NS. Hence NS
NIzz:
INI
gM
X gy
2gM
former equation,
T OBj3 x x xg y
g j\l ' S' x -v. Hence g M:
y —OB, and the equation becomes gM:
Let
Now this being fubftituted in the
and reduced, we have V 'Xgy—f
But fince g M and g y are the
fame,, whatever feclion may be under confideration, the
equation may therefore be exprefled thus, Vxgy=
t ry . r lf,6B\ixx
v
r/1/1 *
y "
VV hence to have the altitude of the metacenter alcove
tne centre of gravity of the immerfed part of the hoU
tom, the length of the fed ion at the water-line muft be
divided.by lines perpendicular to the middle line of this
fection into a great number of equal parts, fo that the
portion of the curve contained between any two adja¬
cent perpendiculars may be confidered as a ftraight line.
1 hen the fum of the cubes of the half perpendiculars or
ordinates is. to be multiplied by the diftance between
the perpendiculars, and two-thirds of the product is to
be divided by the volume of the immerfed part of the
bottom of the (hip.
It is hence evident, that while the feiftor at the wa¬
ter line is the fame, and the volume of the immerfed part
of the bottom remains alfo the fame, the altitude of the' ,
metacenter will remain the fame, whatever may be the
figure of the bottom.
Chap. IV. Of the Centre of Gravity of the immer¬
fed Part cf the Bottom of a Ship.
The centre of gravity * of a {hip, fuppofed homo- * See Me*
geneous, and in an upright pofiticn in the water, is in a chanks. ■
E P vertical
v
>98
SHIP-BUILD IN G.
Fig. 56.
66
Diftance
of the
centre of
gravity
from the
ftem cr
item.
* Bcvout's
Lie cha¬
in que, ait.
279-
Centre of vertical fe&ion palling through the keel, and dividing
Gravity. the into tw0 equal ,and fimilar parts, at a certain di-
■^“y ' ftance from the ftern, and altitude above the heel.
In order to determine the centre of gravity of the
immerfed part of a drip’s bottom, vve muft begin with
determining the centre of gravity of a feftion of the fhip
parallel to the keel, as ANDFPB (fig. 56.), bounded
bv the parallel lines AB, DFf and by the equal and fi-
milar curves AND, BPF.
If the equation of this curve were known, its centre
of gravity would be eafily found : but as this is not the
cafe, let therefore the line CE be drawn through the
middle C, E, of the lines AB, DF, and let this line
CE be divided into fo great a number of equal parts
by the perpendiculars TH, KM, &c. that the arches of
the curves contained between the extremities of any two
adjacent perpendiculars may be confidered as ftraight
lines. The momentums of the trapeziums DTHF,
TKMH, &c. relative to the point E, are then to be
found, and the fum of thefe momentums is to be divided
bv the fum of the trapeziums, that is, by the furface
ANDFPB.
The diftance of the centre of gravity of the trape-
•l . _UEx(DF+2TH)
zium FHFD from the point E is— DF-}-TH *,
For the fame reafon, and becaufe of the equality of the
lines IE, IL, the dillance of the centre of gravity Ol
the trapezium TKMH from the fame point E will be
fIEx(TH + 2KM) IE fIEx(4TH + 5KM)
 iTH + KSr+IE'0r- TH-t-KM •
In like manner, the diftance of the centre of gravity of
the trapezium NKMP from the point E will be
f IE X (KM-f-zNP) xieX(7KM+8NP)
KM+Np-+2lE’0r ra+NP ’
&.C.
Now, if each diftance be multiplied by the furface of
the correfponding trapezium, that is, by the product o
half the fum of the two oppofite fides of the trapezium
into the common altitude IE, we fhaU have the momen-
lums of thefe trapeziums, namely, I Ej1 X (DF-p 2 PH),
IE|* x (4 TH+ 5 KM) -5 IE]1 x (7 KM + .8 NP),
&c. Flence the fum of thefe momentums will be -s
fKf x (DF-f- 6 TH+ 12 KM + 18 NP + 24 QS -f-14
AB). Whence it may be remarked, that if the line
CE be divided into a great number of equal parts, the
fadtor or coefficient of the laft term, which is here 14,
will be = 2 + 3 (tf—2) or 3 «—4, n being the number
of perpendiculars, . Thus the general _expreflion of the
fum of the momentums is reduced to IE|2 X L
3 n—4
TH -f 2 KM + 3 NP + 4 &s +1 &c--“ + '~6~~
X AB.
The area of the figure ANDFPB is equal to IE
X (-! DF -F TH + KM + NP + , &c + i AB);
hence the diftance EG of the centre of gravity G
from one of the extreme ordinates D F is equal to
IE x DF+TH+ 2 KM4-3 NP +, &c.
67
Rule lor   
the diftance 4 DF 4- IH 4-KM + NP-f, &C , .
tre"of Sra' Whence the following rule to find the diftance of the
vity from centre of gravity G from one of the extreme ordinates
ere of the DF. To the fixth of the firft ordinate add the fixth
extreme of the laft ordinate multiplied by three times the num-
ordmates.
ber of ordinates minus four 5 then the fecond" ordinate, Centre of
twice the third, three times the fourth, &c. the fum , Gravity. ^
will be a firft term. Then to half the fum of the ex- v
treme ordinates add all the intermediate ones, and the
fum will be a feccnd term. Now the firft term divided
by the fecond, and the quotient multiplied by the in¬
terval between two adjacent perpendiculars, will be the
diftance fought.
Thus, let there be feven perpendiculars, whofe va¬
lues are 18, 23, 28, 30, 30, 21, o, feet refpe&ively, and
the common interval between the perpendiculars 20
feet. Now the fixth of the firft term 18 is 3 ; and as
the laft term is o, therefore to 3 add 23, twice 28 or
56, thrice 30 or 90, four times 30 or 120, five times
21 or 1055 and the fum is 397. Then to the half of
i8-|-o, or 9, add the intermediate ordinates, and the
fum will be 141. Now 397 X 2~, or = 39 feet
141 ^ 4 ^
four inches nearly, the diftance of the centre of gravity
from the firft ordinate.
Now, when the centre of gravity of any feftion is de¬
termined, it is eafy from thence to find the centre o£
gravity of the folid, and confequently that of the bottom
of a fliip.
The next ftep is to find the height of the centre °* of
gravity of the bottom above the keel. For .this pur-
pofe the bottom muft be imagined to be divided into 0fgravity
feftions by planes parallel to the keel or water-line, above the
(figs. 57, 58.). Then the folidity of each portion con-^eb ^
tained between two parallel planes will be equal to half W* 5
the fum of the two oppofed furfaces multiplied by the
diftance between them 5 and its centre of gravity will
be at the fame altitude as that of the trapezium abed,
(fig. 58.), which is in the vertical feftion palling
through the keel. It is hence obvious, that the fame
rule as before is to be applied to find the altitude of the
centre of gravity, with this difference only, that the
word perpendicular or otdinate is to be changed into
fe&ion. Hence the rule is, to the fixth part of the
loweft feftion add the product of the fixth part of the
uppermoft feflion by three times the number of feftions
minus four ; the fecond feftion in afeending twice the
third, three times the fourth, &c. the fum will be a
firft term. To half the fum of upper and lower fee-
tions add the intermediate ones, the fum will be a fecond
term. Divide the firft term by the feccnd, and the
quotient muliiplied by the diftance between the fe&ions-
will give the altitude of the centre of gravity above the
keel.
With regard to the centre of gravity of a ftiip, whe¬
ther it is confidered as loaded or light, the operation
becomes more difficult. The momentum of every dif¬
ferent part of the ftnp and cargo muft be found fepa-
rately with refpeft to a horizontal and alfo a vertical
plane. New the fums of thefe two momentums being
divided by the weight of the flffp, will give the altitude-
of the centre of gravity, and its diftance from the ver¬
tical plane ; and as this centre is in a vertical plane paf-
fing through the axis of the keel, its place is therefore
determined. In the calculation of the momentums, it
’ muft be obferved to multiply the weight, and not the
magnitude of each piece, by the diftance of its centre of
gravity. , r
A more eafy method of finding the centre of gravity
of
Cer.ire of
Gravity.
69
A mecha-
rical me¬
thod for
afcertain-
ing the
centre of
gravity of
a ftiip.
of a ftiip is by a mechanical operation, as Follows: Con-
ftruft a block of as light wood as poftible, exa£lly fimilar
to the parts of the propofed draught or fttip, by a fcale
of about one-fourth of an inch to a foot. The block is
then to be fufpended by a filk-thread or very fine line,
placed in different fituations until it is found to be in a
itate of equilibrium, and the centre of gravity will be
pointed out. The block may be proved by fattening
the line which fufpends it to any point in the line join¬
ing the middles of the ftem and poft, and weights are
to be fufpended from the extremities of this middle line
at the ftem and poft. If, then, the block be properly
conftrufted, a plane patting through the line of fulpen-
fton, and the other two lines, will alfo pafs through the
keel, ftem, and poft. Now, the block being fufpended
in this manner from any point in the middle line, a line
is to be drawn on the block parallel to the line or iut-
penfion, fo that the plane patting through thefe two lines
may be perpendicular to the vertical plane o^ the ihip
in the direction of the keel. I he line by which the
block is fufpended is then to be removed to fome other
SHIP-BUILDING. 29
convenient point in the middle line ; and another hne Cent™ o
is to be drawn on the block parallel to the line impend-1 ^ ,
ing it, as before. Then the point of interfedlion of this
line with the former will give the pofttion of the centre
of gravity on the block, which may now be laid down
in the draught.
Chap. V. Application of the preceding Rules to the
Determination of the Centre of Gravity and the
Height of the Metacenter above the Centre of Gra¬
vity of a Ship of 74 Guns.
In fig- 59* are laid down the feveral fe&ions in a ho-Fig.
rizontal direftion, by planes parallel to the keel, and at
equal diftances from each other, each diftance being 10
feet o inches 4 parts.
I. Determination of the Centre of Gravity of the upper
Horizontal Setiioli.
To find the diftance of the centre of gravity of the
plane 8 <§• 0 G from the firft ordinate 8 g.
Ordinates.
Feet. In. P
14 9
17 l
18 9
19 10
20
21
21
21
21
21
21
7
1
6
7
7
7
4
20 10
19 9
17 4
J3 1
Double Ord.
Feet. In. P.
29 6 O
34 3
37 6
39 8
4l 3
1 ft Faflors
4 11
42
43
43
43
43 _
42 8
41 9
39
34
10
J3
1 ft Produ&s. 2d Fa&ors.
Feet. In. P.
o
o I
o I
o I
o I
6 1
O I
6 1
o 1
o I
0 I
o I
o I
o I
. 34
75
119
165
211
258
3°3
346
389
2d Products,
Feet. In. P.
14 9 O
3
6
8
3
3
o
3
3
3
34
37
39
41
42
43
43
43
43
426 8
459
474
451
42 8
41 9
26 2
6 ((3X15) —4) X § i79
04
39
34
J3
291 1 3
3897 3
Now
582 2 6
1
3S97 3 1
2807 • 2;
X 10 0 4- . - •■-IT X 10-03 = 7°-5*
Hence the'drftance of the centre of gravity of double the plane S g 0 G from the firft ordinate,
8 g, is
Diftance of this ordinate from the aft fide of ftern-poft,
Diftance of the centre of gravity from the aft fide of poft,
Diftance of the centre of gravity of double the trapezium AR ^ 8 from its ordinate AR,
Diftance of this ordinate from the aft fide of the ftern-poft,
Diftance of the centre of gravity of this plane from the aft-fide of the ftern-poft
Diftance of the centre of gravity of double the trapezium G 0 y y from its ordinate G o,
Diftance of this ordinate from the aft-fide of the poft,
Diftance of the centre of gravity of this trapezium from the aft fide of the poft,
Diftance of the centre of gravity of the feaion of the ftern-poft from the aft part of the poft,
Diftftnce of the centre of gravity of the feaion of the ftern from the aft fide of the poft,
P p 2
o
o
o
o
6
6
6
6
o
o
o
o
6
554 4 3
Feet.
7°*5
13-S
84.0
8.42
0.58
9.0
5-44
I53-78
159.22
0.29
169.76
The
’-*>
300
Centre of
Gravity,
S H I P - B U I L D I N G.
Tp.e aieasof tiiefe feveral planes, calculated by the common method, will be as follow
5558.90 for that of the plane, and its momentum 5558.9 X 84 rr
J99.13 for that of double the trapezium AR^8, and its momentum 109.12 XQ =r
214.59 of double the trapezium G oyy, and its momentum 214.59 x i s0.22 1=
o.y y for that of the leftion of the Ifern-polt, and its momentmm 0.77x0.29 —
0.77 for that of the feftton of the Item, and its momentum 0.77 x 169.76 zo
5974.16 Sum - ,
466947.6000
1792.1700
34x67.0236
0.2233
I3°-7I52
5°3037-7321
Now£2ifHii = 84-2> th' d;ftance "f 1,16 “f gravity of the whole Mion front the aft fide of
the dern-poft,
II. Determination of the Centre of Gravity of the fee and Horizontal SeBion.
To find the diftance of the centre of gravity of double the plane 8 fnG from its firft ordinate 8/
Ordinates. Double Ord. 1. Faflors.
Feet. In. Pt
112 3
JS 3
5
18 10
19 10
20 7
21 o
21 2
21 O
20 IO
20 6
Feet In. Pts.
39 10
18 6
J5 9
11 2
o
o
3
6
o
3
o
6
9
6
o
o
6
22 4
30 6
34 10
37 8
39
41
42
42
42
41
41
39 8
37 °
7
5
31
22
6
o
o
6
o
o
6
o
o
6
o
o
o
o
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
I. Products. 2. Faft.
Feet In. Pt'.
389 Of
0 I
O I
6 1
o I
O I
0 I
o I
o I
6 1
o I
o I
o I
O I
30 6
69 8
113 1
i59 °
205 10
2S2 3
296 4
33^ 8
376 1
410 10
436 4
444 °
410 7
2. Products.
Feet In. Pts.
II 2 2
30 6
34 10
37 8
6 ((3X15)—4) X 7 153 5 6
°i
39
41
42
42
42
41
41 1
39 8
37 o
3i 7
11 2
273 2 3 546 4 6
3698 5 3
S23 11 6
Hence the difknee of the centre of gravity of double the plane 8fn G from its firft ordinate 8n
^2LJ3 x = 3S9M3 x J0 =
__523 11 6 . _ 523 95 J
r Diftance of this ordinate from the aft fide of the ftern-poft
Diftance of the centre of gravity of the above plane from the aft fide of poft
Difiance of the centre of gravity of double the trapezium AR/8 from its ordinate AR
Diftance of this ordinate from aft fide of ftern-poft
Diftance of the centre of gravity of the trapezium from the aft fide of the poft -
Diftance of the centre of gravity of the trapezium before the ordinate G» from that ordinate
Diftance ot that ordinate from the aft fide of the poft
Diftance of the centre of gravity of the trapezium from the aft fide of the poft
Diftance of the centre of gravity of the fe&ion of the ftern-poft from the aft fide of the poft
Diftance of the centre of gravity of the feaion of the ftem from the aft fide qf the poft
70.79
X3-S
84.29
8.38
°-57
8'93
5-74
jS3-73
l59'S2
0.29
169.76
Centre of
Gravity.
The
Centre of
Gravity.
SHIP-BUILDING.
The areas of thefe feveral planes being calculated, will be as follow
5255.22 for that of the plane jiG, and its momentum 5255.22X 84.29 =
153.11 for that of double the trapezium AR f%, and its momentum 153.11 X 8.95 r=
182.40 the area of the trapezium before, and its momentum 182.40 X l59-52 —
0.77 the area of the fedlion of the fternpoft, and its momentum 0.77x0.29 rz
0.77 the area of the fection of the ftem, and its momentum 0.77 X 169.76 =
5592.27 Sum ...
301
Centre of
Gravity.
442962.4938
I37°-3345
29096.4480
0.2233
150.7152
473560.2148
Now -'^T= 84.68. the diftance of the centre of gravity of the whole fe&ion from the aft-fide of the
5952.27
ftern-poft.
V
III. Determination of the Centre of Gravity of the third Horizontal SeElion.
Diftance of the centre of gravity of double the plane 8 e G from its firlt ordinate 8 e.
Ordinates.
Feet. In. Pts.
676
7
1
1
3
3
9
o
o
11
15
17
18
*9
19
20
20
19 8
19 1
18 1
16 3
13 2
8 4
Double Ord.
Feet. In. Pt‘.
!3 3 °
3
2
2
6
6
6
o
o
4
2
2
7
4
23
30
34
36
33
39
40
40
39
3 3
36
32
26
ill Faftors.
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
1 ft Produfb. 2d Faft. 2d Produfts.
Feet; In. Pts. Feet. In. Pts.
2 2 6 OF 676
23
60
102
146
I92
237
280
320
354
382
397
391
3
4
7
o
6
o
o
o
4
1
10
6
342 10
23
3°
34
3^
33
39
/
3
2
2
6
6
6
40 o
40 o
39 4
38 2
36 2
32 7
26 4
16 9 o ((3x15)—4)x£=: 114 5 6 04- 846
242 5 3
484 10 6
3347
469 10 6
Hence the diftance of the centre of gravity of double the plane 8 <? /« G from its firft ordinate 8 p is =2
3347 o 6
3347.04
X 10 o 4 = —X 10.03=:
469 10 6 469.87
Diftance of this ordinate from the aft fide of the poft
71.44
I3*5
Hence the diftance of the centre of gravity of this plane from the aft fide of the poft is - 84.94
Diftance of the centre of gravity of double the trapezium AR e 8, from its ordinate AR - 8.03
Diftance of this ordinate from the aft fide of the poft _ . „ „
Diftance of the centre of gravity of this trapezium from the aft fide of the poft - 8.61
Diftance of the centre of gravity of the foremoft trapezium from its ordinate G //1 - 5.19
Diftance of this ordinate from the aft fide of the poft - - I53-78
Diftance of the centre of gravity of this trapezium from the aft fide of the poft 1 - 158.97
Diftance of the centre of gravity of the feftion of the j?oft from the aft fide of the poft - 0.29 ,
Diftance of the.centre of gravity of the fe&ion of the ftem from the aft fide of the poft - 169.76
The
SHIP-BUILDING.
The areas of thefe feveral planes will be found to be as fellows:
4712.7961 for that of double the plane 8 e rnG, and its momentum 471 2.7961 X 84.94~
93.84 the area of double the trapezium AR 3 e 88, and its momentum 93.84x8.61 ~
131.1 for the area of foremoft trapezium, and its momentum 131.1 X I58.97 =
0.77 the area of the feCtion of the poft, and its momentum 0.77x0.29= ' *
0.77 the area of the fection of the item, and its momentum 0.77 x 169.76 =
302
Centre of
Gravity.
Centre of
Gravity
400304.9007
807.9624
20840.967
0.2233
130.7152
4939.2761 Sum
422084.7706
Now 4220^4 77^6 __ ^ ^ didance of the centre of gravity of the whole fe&ion from the aft fide of
the poft.
4939.2761
IV. Determination of the Centre of Gravity of the Fourth Horizontal Seclion.
Diftance of the centre of gravity of double the plane 8dIG from its firft ordinate 8d.
Ordinates. Double Ord. 1. Faftors.
Feet. In. Pts. Feet. In. Pts.
336 670 o£
790 15 6 o 1
11110 23100 2
14 8 9 29 5 6 3
o 32 6 o 4
9 34 9 6 5
9 36 3 6 6
o 36 10 o .7
o 36 6 o 8
9 35 9 6 9
6 * 34 5 o 10
3 31 8 6 11
o 27 O O 12
6 19 3 0 13
5 4 9 10 9 6 ((3x15)—4)
16
17
18
18
18
17 10
17 2
15 10
13 6
9 7
"5. Produfls.
Ft et. In. Pts.
I I 2
15 6 o
47 8 o
88 4 6
130 o o
173 11 5
217 9 o
257 10 b
292 o o
322 1 6
340 10 o
348 9 6
324 o o
250 3 o
X ? 73 8 11
2. Fa£I. 2. Produ&s.
Feet. In. Pts.
0* 3 3 6
1 1560
1 23 10 o
1 29 5 6
1 326.0
1 34 9 6
1 36 3 6
1 36 10 o
1 36 6 o
1 35 9 6
1 34 5 o
1 31 8 6
1 27 o o
1 19 3 °
oi
5 4 9
205 76 411 3
2883 11 o
402 6 9
lienee the diftance of the centre of gravity of double the plane 8 dl G from its ftrft ordinate 8 z/, 13
2883 11 o 2883.916
=  —   x 10 o 4 =  — X 10.03 = - -
402 69 H 402.56 0
Diftance of this ordinate from the aft fide of the poll
Diftance of the centre of gravity of the plane from the aft fide of the poft
71-85
13 5
85-35
Diftance of the centre of gravity of double the trapezium AR</8 from its ordinate AR - 7.89
Diftance of this ordinate from the aft fide of the poft - - - 0.58
Diftance of the centre of gravity of the trapezium from the aft fide of the poft - - 8.47
Diftance of the centre of gravity of the foremoft trapezium from its ordinate G / - - 4.83
Diftance of this ordinate from aft fide of the poft - - 153-78
Diftance of the centre of gravity of the trapezium from the aft fide of the poft - - 158.61
3Ja.i1 K«; ' -Tl. ixoft '•
Diftance of the centre of gravity of the feftion of the poft from its aft fide - - 0.29
Diftance of the centre of gravity of the fe&ion of the ftem from the aft fide of the poft - - 169.76
4
The
Centre of
Gravity.
S H I P-B U I L D I N G.
The areas of thefe feveral planes being calculated, will be as follow :
acm 6768 for that of double the plane 8 *7 G, and its momentum 4037.6768X 85.35^
ci!i2 the area of double the trapezium AR</8, and its momentum 51.12x8.47 —
'70 16 the area of the foremoft trapezium, and its momentum 79.16 X I58-6i
077 the area of the feftion of the poft, and its momentum 0.77 X0.29 =
0^77 the area of the fedion of the ftem, and its momentum 0.77 X 169.76 _
Centre of
Gravity.
4169.4968 Sum
344615.7149
432.9804
i2555-5676
0.2233
130.7152
557735-2074
Then 857735-2G74 85.80, the diftance of the fourth horizontal fe&ion from the aft fide of the itern-pofh
4169.4968
V.
Didance
Ordinates.
Feet. In. L.
X 9 O
4 6
8 3
11 8
13 10
15 3
Determination of the Centre of Gravity of the fifth Horizontal SeBion.
of the centre of gravity ©f double the plane 8 c £ G from its firil ordinate 8 c.
Double Ord. 1. Fadors. 1. Produds. 2. Fad. 2. Produds.
Feet. In. L.
36°
16
16
16
15
14 IO
12 IO
9 8
6 1
9
16
23
27
3°
32
32 10
32 6
31 6
29 8
25
J9
12
3 3°
o
o
6
6
o
6
o
o
o
o
6
6
o
1
2
3
4*
5 '
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
J3
Feet. In. L.
070
9 0
33 0
70 1
110 10
152 6
192 3
229 10
260 o
283 6
296 8
282 9
233 6
lS9 3
cl
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
6 6 o((3Xi5)—4)x£ 44 5
Feet. In. L.
190
900
16 6
23 4
27 8
30 6
32 o
32 10
32 6
31 6
29 8
25 8
J9 5
12 3
3 3
166 63 333 0 7
2358 3 o
328 o 6
. 2358 3 o
Hence the diftance of the centre of gravity of double the plane 8 c £ G from its firft ordinate is ^
2358-25 w . - 72.10
X'10 0 4 = "pg^Xio.os-
Diftance of this ordinate from the aft fide of the poll
Diftance of the centre- of gravity of the plane from the aft fide of the poftj
Diftance of the centre of gravity of double tbe trapezium ARc 8 from its oramate AR
Diftance of this ordinate from the aft fide of poft
Diftance of centre of gravity of trapezium from aft fide of the poll
Diftance of the centre of gravity of the foremoft trapezium from its ordinate G k
Diftance of this ordinate from the aft fide of poft
Diftance of the centre of gravity of the foremoft trapezium from the aft fide of the poft
Diftance of the centre of gravity of the fedion of the poft from the aft fide of poft
Diftance of the centre of gravity of the fedion of the ftem from the aft fide o. poL-
13-5° '
85.60
7.42
0.58
8.00
4.22
158.00
0.29
169.76
The
3^4
Centre of
Gravity.
SHIP-BUILDING.
The areas of thefe feveral planes being calculated, will be as follow.
3290.2412 for the area of double the plane 8c£G, and its momentum 3290.241 2 x 8 c.6=
31.21 the area of double the trapezium ARc8, and its momentum 31.21 x8=
42.43 the area of the foremoft trapezium, and its momentum 4243X1 =
0.77 tne area of the feaion of the poll, and its momentum 0.77 x 0.20=
0.77 t te area of the feilion of the Rem, and its momentum 0.77 x 169.76=:
3365.4212 Sum - - . .
281644.6467
249.68
6703.94
0.2233
130.7132
288729.2052
Centre of
Gravity,
Rern.
>T 288729.2052 Q ' .
3365.4212 ^'79> t*ie diftance of the centre of gravity of the whole fe&ion from the aft fide of the
VI. Determination of the Centre of Gravity of the Jixth Horizontal Scttion.
Diftance of the centre of gravity of double the plane 8 £ f G from its fnft ordinate 8 b.
Ordinates. Double Ord. x. Factors. 1. Produdls. 2. Fafl. 2. ProduiSh.
Feet. In. L.
IOO
2
4
7
10
12
13
12
10
7
4
5
5
3
1
1
3
9
7
8
6
1
7
2 10
1 6
o
o
6
9
3
o
9
o
o
6
o
3
6
Feet. In. L.
2 0 0
4 fo o
8 10 o
14
20
24
26
27
27
25
21
J4
9
5
3
7
3
2
6
7
2
4
1
2
2
9
1
Off
X
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
Feet In. L.
040
4 10 o
17 80
43
81
9
10
11
12
J3
121
*59
193
2!7
228
2X0 10
I55 IO
110 6
74 9
6 (3X 15)—4^Xff 21 4
1
1
X
I
I
1
I
r
1
1
1
1
1
Feet. In.
I O
4 JO
8 IO
7
3
2
6
7
2
4
1
M
20
24
26
27
27
25
21
M
5>
5
x
L,
O
o
o
o
6
6
o
6
o
o
o
o
6
•o
JI7 4 3 234 8 6
i639 9 3
Hence the diftance of the centre of gravity of double the plane 8 Z> o G fr
1639 9 3 1630.77
   — ■— X xo o 4 — --A-O- x 10.03 =
232 1 3 232.14 J
Diftance of this ordinate from aft fide of poft - . .
Hence the diftance of the centre of gravity of the plane from the aft fide of the poft is
Dithmce of the centre of gravity of the trapezium AR b 8 from its ordinate AR
Diftance of this ordinate from the aft fide of the poft - .
Diftance of the centre of gravity of the trapezium from the aft fide of the poft
Diftance of the centre of gravity of the foremoft trapezium from the ordinate G t
Diftance of this ordinate from the aft fide of poft
232 1 9
om its firft ordinate 8 b is
70.84
Diftance of the
Diftance of the
Diftance of the
2328.3642 for
21.52 for
15.04 the
0.77 the
0.77 the
centre of gravity of this trapezium from the aft fide of the poft
centre of gravity of the feSion of the poft from its aft fide
centre of gravity of the feaion of the ftem from the aft fide of the poft
I he areas of thefe planes will be found to be as fellow :
that of double the plane 8 £ z G, and its momentum 2328 3642 -j- 84.
the area of double the trapezium AR b 8, and its momentum 21.52 X
area of the foremoft trapezium, and its momentum 15.04 X 156.7 —
area of the feaion of the poft, and its momentum O.77 X 0.29 —
area of the feaion of the ftem, and its momentum 0.77 X 169.76 ~
34 =
7.46 =
2366.4642 Sum
*4-34
6.88
0.58
7.46
2.92
*53 78
156.70
0.29
169.76
i96374-2366
160.5392
2356.7680
0.2233
130 7152
199022.4823
Nov*
S H I P - B U I L D I N G. 3°5
Centre of
y f Now 199022,4^23 ^ 8 the diftance of the centre of gravity of the whole from the aft fide of the port. , Gravity.^
2366.4643
VII. Determination of the Centre of Gravity of the feventh Horizontal Sefiion.
Diftance of the centre of gravity of double the plane 8 // G from Its firft ordinate 8 a.
Ordinates. Double Ord. 1. Fadors. 1. Produfts. 2. Faft. 2 Produd?,
Feet. In. Lin
080
I I
i 7
1 10
2 1
2 I
I IO
i 8
I I
9
o 8
o 8
Feet. In. L.
140
3
3
9
2
2
9
4
2
6
4
4
4
4
o-J
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
Feet. In. Lin.
0 2 8
2 3
6 6
11 4
16 10
20 10
22 9
33 4
J7 4
13 6
J3 4
14 8
16 o
17 4
o
o
6
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
ot
I
1
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
Feet. In. Lin.
080
((3x15)—4) x 7 9 1 4
o
o
6
6
o
6
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
18
36 5 6
205 4 6
35
72I5
6-45
0.1
Hence the diftance of the centre of gravity of double
205 4 6
this plane from its firft ordinate is' 1° 0 4
 2°5*37
—i7X2x,0-83= * ‘ •
The diftance of this ordinate from aft fide of
poft =
Hence the diftance of the centre of gravity of
this plane from the aft fide of the poft is
Diftance of the centre of gravity of double the
rectangle AR a 8 from its ordinate AR
Diftance of this ordinate from the aft fide of
the poft
Diftance of the centre of gravity of this re£t-
angle from the aft fide of the poft
Diftance of the centre of gravity of the fore-
moft re&angle from its ordinate 7' 7 * 7'
Diftance of this ordinate from the aft fide of
the poft
Diftance of the centre of gravity of this re£t-
angle from the aft fide of the poft
Diftance of the centre of gravity of the fec-
tion of the poft from its aft fide
Diftance of the centre of gravity of the fee-
tion of the ftem from the aft fide of the
poft -
Now, the areas of thefe feveral plans being calculated
will be as follows.
Vol. XIX. Part L
352.2536, the area of double the plan
8a^G, and its momentum
352.2536x72*i5:::: 254x5
17.1570, the area of double the rectan¬
gle AR a 8, and its mo¬
mentum 17.1570 x 7-03=
the area of the foremoft reft-
angle, and its momentum
3-325° X i55;03~ p ,
the area of the fe£tion ot the
poft, and its momentum
0.77x0.29=
the area of the feCtion of the
ftem and its momentum
0.77 X 166.76=
3*325°>
0.77,
°77>
9 3
120.6137
5i5*4747
0.2233
130.7152
7-°3
1.25
I53-78
I55*°3
0.29
169.76
374-275^
Sum 26182.1242
Then 26i82-i242_ ^ the diftance of the
374.2756
centre of gravity of the whole feCtion from the aft fide
of the poft.
VIII. Determination of the Centre of Gravity of the
eighth Plane.
This plane is equal in length to the feventh horizon¬
tal plane, and its breadth is equal to that of the keel.
The diftance between the feventh and eighth planes is
three feet, but which is here taken equal to 2 feet 11 -|
inches.
Diftasm**
3oS
c,"1" of Diflaace behveen the aft Gde of the pofl and
i-—^ the firft: ordinate - _ .
Fourteen intervals between the fifteen ordi¬
nates, each interval being 10.03 feet
Dillance of the laft ordinate from the fore foot
S H I P - B U I L D I N G.
Hence the length of the eighth plane is
Which multiplied by the breadth
■1 he produfl is the area of this plane
1 he dillance of its centre of gravity from the
aft fide of the pod, being equal to half its
length, is - - -
1o-j>
140.42
2.2
j 56.12
J-33
208.
Ilor. Plane?.
208.00
3 74-2 7
2366.46
3365 42
4160.50
4939-27
5592-27
5974-I6^ (3 X 8)
ifl Fact. 1 It Pi'oclucts. rd 1 act. 2(1 Produtfls.
r 3467
374-27
473292
10096.26
16678.00
24696.35
33553-62
-4) X ? i99I3-87
'78.06
x 10079.96
ci
1
1
1
1
1
1
ci
104.00
374-27
2366.46
3365-42
4169. CO
4939-27
5592-27
2987 08
23898.27
The centres of gravity of thefe eight planes being
found, the didance of the centre of gravity of the bot¬
tom of the diip from the aft fide of the pod, and alfo
its altitude, may from thence be eafily determined.
From the principles already explained, the didance of
the centre of gravity of the bottom from the aft fide of
the pod, is equal to the fum of the momentums of an
infinite number of horizontal planes, divided by the fum
of thefe planes, or, which is the fame, by the folidity
of the bottom. As, however, we have no more than
eight planes, we mud therefore conceive their momcn-
tums as the ordinates of a curve, whofe didances may
be the fame as that of the horizontal planes. Now the
fum of thefe ordinates minus half the fum of the extreme
ordinates being multiplied by their didance, gives the
furface of the curve -, of which any ordinate whatever re-
prefents the momentum of the horizontal plane at the
fame altitude as thefe ordinates j and the whole furface
will reprefent the fum of the momentums of all the hori¬
zontal planes.
Kor.Plar.es. Facd. Producds. I Momentums. FhA Prodiud?
5974.16 of 2987.08503037.73 of
5592.27 I 5592.27,473560.21 I
4939.27 I 4939.27422084.77 I
4169.50 i 4169-5° 357735-21 1
3365-42 1 336542288729.20 1
2366.46 1 236646199022.48 1
374.27 1 374-27 21682.12 1
208.00 oi 104.00 16236.48 oi
23898.27
25i5j8.86
473560.21
422084.77
357735-21
288729.20
199022.48
21682.12
8118.24
2022451.09
Now ~2■ —5—71 ^=084.63, the didance of the centre
23898.27 t
of gravity of the bottom of the diip from the aft fide of
the pod.
The height of the centre of gravity of the bottom
above the lower edge of the keel may be determined by
the fame principles. Thus,
To one-fixth of the lowermod horizontal feflion add
the produft of one-fixth of the uppermod feftion by
three times the number of fedlions minus four the fe-
cond fe&ion in afcending, twice the third, three times
the fourth, &c. ; and to half the fum of the extreme
planes add all the intermediate ones. Now the fird of
thefe fums, multiplied by the didance between the planes
or feftions, and divided by the fecond fum, gives the
altitude of the centre of gravity of the bottom of the
ftiip above the lower edge of the keel as required.
,T 110070.06
NoW * 2'5>5—i3-5885 the height of the
centre of gravity of the bottom of the diip above the
lower edge of the keel.
_ We have now found the didance of the centre of gra¬
vity of the bottom of the diip from the aft fide of the
pod, and its altitude above the lower edge of the keel.
Hence the fliip being fuppofed in .an upright pofition,
this centre of gravity will neceffarily be in the vertical
longitudinal feftion which divides the diip into two equal
and fimilar parts ; the pofition of this centre is therefore
determined.
T • • 70
It now remains to find the height of the metaGenter ^ctl-rmina-
above the centre of gravity ; the expreffion for this alii-tlon ot the
1 A,3 ^ height of
tude, as found in Chap. III. is —• which w-e fliallthe meta*
V center
now apply to determine the metacenter of the Chip ofabove die
74 guri;;> whofe centre of gravity we have already found.""*-
6W. of the Plane of Floatation. Cub. of Ordinates.
II57I9-342
Ordinate at 10.03 ^eet the ordi¬
nate 8^=14, of which the cube is
64, and 64 xi - - 32.
Ordinate at 10.03-feet afore the ordi¬
nate G 0—6, cube of which is 216
108.
115859.442
10-°3
1162070.20326
Produdl
2i6xi
Sum
Difiance between the ordinates
Produdt
Crnfre of
Gravity.
Pioducl
Half the cube of the after-
moif ordinate
Half the cube of the thick-
nefs of the ftem
S H I P - B U
1162070.20326
32>
0.14
Sum - - 32.14
Diitance between the ordinates 3.0
Prod u ft ... 96.42
Half the cube of the fore-
moft ordinate - 108.
Half the cube of the thick-
nefs of the ftem - .14
Sum - - 108.14
Diftance between the ordinates 5.5
Produft
x
2 fif x - -
rfy*x
594-77
1162761.39326
2325522.78652
775174.26217
The folidity of the bottom is 2527-]; tons =70018.67
cubic feet: hence JjJJ-L.2—— j I.0y feet t]ie
V 70018.67 '
altitude of the metacenter above the centre of gravity
of the bottom of the Ihip.
APPENDIX.
When a fnip is built, flie muft be fitted with mafts,
yards, fails, ropes, and blocks, or, in other words, the
muft be rigged before Ore can go to fea. To complete
this article, it may therefore be thought neceffary to
treat of the art of rigging vefiels; but rve have elfe-
where (fee MA ST-Rigging, Rope-Making, find Sail)
ftiown how the feveral parts of a Ihip’s rigging are
made ; and the art of putting them properly together,
fo as to make the fnip belt anfwer the purpofe for which
ftie is intended, depends upon a juft knowledge of the
impulfe and refiftance of fluids, and of the theory and
praftice of feamanftiip. (See RESISTANCE of Thuds
and Seamanship). Nothing, therefore, of the fubjeft
is left to us here, except we were to ftate in few words
the progredive method of rigging fhips 5 but there is no
one undeviating mode which is purfued, as the nature of
the operation is fuch that all the parts of it may be ad¬
vancing at the fame time. We fhall therefore take our
leave of Jhifss and (hip-building with a fewr general ob-
lervations on fail-mnhing, and refer our readers for far¬
ther information to the very elegant work on the E/e~
ments and PraBice of Rigging and ScarnanJljip in two
volumes quarto.
Sails are made of canvas, of different textures, and are
extended on or between the mafts, to receive the wind
that forces the veffel through the water. They are
quadrilateral or triangular, as has been elfewhere de-
feribed, and are cut out of the canvas doth by cloth.
The width is governed by the length of the yard, gaff,
boom, or ftay} the depth by the height of the maft.
I L D I N C.
307
Appendix.
In the valuable work to which we have juft referred,
the^ following directions are given for cutting fails.
“ -^he width and depth being given, find the number
of cloths the width requires, allowing for Teams, tabling
on the leeches, and flack cloth j and, in the depth, al¬
low for tabling on the head and foot. For fails cut
Iquare on the head and foot, with gores only on the
leeches, as fome topfails, &c. the cloths on the head,
between the leeches, are cut fquare to the depth ; and
the gores on the leeches are found by dividing the depth
of the fail by the number of cloths gored, which gives
the length of each gore. The gore is fet down from a
fquare with the oppofite felvage 5 and the canvas being
cut diagonally, the longeft gored fide of one cloth
makes the fliorteft fide of the next 5 confequently, the
firft gore being known, the reft are cut by it. In the
leeches of topfails cut hollow, the upper gores are long¬
er than the lower ones ; and in fails cut with a roach
leech, the lower gores are longer than the upper ones.
This muft be regulated by judgment, and care taken
that the whole of the gores do not exceed the depth of
the leech. Or, by drawing on paper the gored fide of
the fail, and delineating the breadth of every cloth by
a convenient fcale of equal parts of an inch to a foot,
the length of every gore may be found with precifion.
Sails, gored with a fweep on the head or the foot, or
on both, have the depth of their gores marked on the
felvage, from the fquare of the given depth on each
cloth, and are cut as above ; the longeft felvage of one
ferving to meafure the fliorteft felvage of the next, be¬
ginning with the firft gored cloth next the middle in
fome fails, and the firft cloth next to the maft leech in
others. For thofe gores that are irregular no drift rule
can be given ; they can only be determined by the judge¬
ment of the fail-maker, or by a drawing.
“ In the royal navy, mizen topfails are cut with F-lcments
three quarters of a yard hollow in the foot 5 but, in theaml Prac~
merchant fervice, top and topgallant fails are cut with^L^l
more or lefs hollow in the foot. Flying jibs are cvA caul Sea-
with a roach curve on the ftay, and a three-inch gore,nailJhipi
in each cloth, fliortening from the tack to the due.voJ'^ p'i,r*
Lower ft adding-fills are cut with fquare leeches, and 1
topmaft and topgallant-maft ftudding fails with goring
leeches.
“ The length of reef and middle bands is governed by
the width of the fail at their refpeftive places 5 the leech-
linings, buntline-cloths, top linings, maft-cloths, and cor¬
ner-pieces, are cut agreeably to the depth of the fail 5
each cloth and every article fhould be properly marked
with charcoal, to prevent confufiOn or miftake. Sails
that have bonnets are cut out the whole depth of the
fail and bonnet included, allowing enough for the ta-
blings on the foot of the fail and head and foot of the
bonnet. The bonnet is cut off after the fail isfewed to¬
gether. If a drabler is required, it is allowed for in the
cutting out the fame as the bonnet.
_ When the cloth is thus properly cut, the different
pieces are to be joined together in the form of a fail;
and for doing this properly we have the following di¬
rections in the work already quoted. “ Sails have a
double flat feam, and fnould be fewed with the belt
Englifh made twine of three threads, fpun 360 fathoms
to the pound, and have from one hundred and eight to
one hundred and fixteen flitches in every yard in length.
1 he tw ine for large fails, in the royal navy, is waxed
Q, ft 2 by
3°S S H I P - B U
Appendix.^ by band, with genuine bees wax, mixed with one fixth
' part of clear turpentine ; and, for fmall faih, in a mix¬
ture made with bees wax, 4 lb. hogs lard $ lb. and
clear turpentine 1 lb. In the merchant fervice, the twine
is dipped in tar (l), foftened with a proper proportion
of oil.
“ It is the erroneous practice of fome failmakers
not to few the feams any farther than where the edge
is creafed down for the tabling •, but all fails Ihould
be fewed quite home to the end, and, when finilhed,
fnould be well rubbed down with a rubber. In the
merchant fervice feams are fometimes made broader at
the foot than at the head, being ftronger. Broad
feams are not allowed to be made on courfes, in the
royal navy, but goring leeches are adopted in lieu of
them. Boom mainfails and the fails of Hoops generally
have the feams broader at the foot than at the head.
The feams of courfes and topfails are ftuck or Hitched
up, in the middle of the feams, along the whole length,
with double foaming twine j and have from 68 to 72
Hitches in a yard. In the merchant fervice it is common
to Hick the feams with twTo rows of Hitches, when the
fail is half worn, as they will then laft till the fail is
worn out.
“ The breadth of the feams of courfes, topfails, and
other fails, in the royal navy, to be as follow, viz. cour¬
fes and topfails, for 50 gun fliips and upwards, one inch
and a half, and for 44 gun (hips and under, one inch
and a quarter, at head and foot j all other fails, one inch
at head and foot.
“ The tablings of all fails are to be of a proportion-
able breadth to the fize of the fail, and few'ed at the
edge, w'ith 68 to 72 Hitches in a yard. Thofe for the
heads of main and fore courfes to be four to fix inches
wide ; for fprit courfes and mizens, drivers, and other
boom fails, 3 to 4 inches wide 5 for topfails, 3 inches to
4 inches and a half; topgallant and fprit topfails, 3
inches j royal fails, 2 inches and a half; jib and other
Hayfails, 3 inches to 4 inches and a half, on the flay or
hoiit j and for fludding fails, 3 inches to 4 inches on the
head. Tablings on the foot and leeches of main and
fore courfes to be 3 inches to 5 inches broad ; fprit
courfe and topfails, 3 inches j topgallant and fprit top-
fails, 2 inches and a half; royals, 2 inches 5 fore leeches
of mizen, driven and other boomfails, 3 inches and a half
io 4 inches 5 after leech, 3 inches; and on the foot 2 or
3 inches. Tablings on the after leech of jibs and other
Hayfails to be from 2 to 3 inches broad ; and, on the
foot, 2 to 2 inches and a half: on fludding fail leeches
one inch and a half to two inches and a half; and on the
foot, from one to two inches.
“ Main and fore courfes are lined on the leeches,
from clue to earing, with one cloth feamed on and Huck
or Hitched in the middle, and have a middle band half
way between the lower reef band and the foot, alfo four
buntline cloths, at equal diflances between the leeches,
the upper ends of which are carried under the middle
band, that the lower fide of the band may be tabled up¬
on or fewed over the end of the buntline pieces. They
have likewife two reef bands 5 each in breadth one third
I L D I N G.
of the breadth of the canvas; the upper one is one fixth Appendix,
of the depth of the fail from the head, and the lovver
band is at the fame diflance from the upper one ; the
ends go four inches under the leech linings, which are
feamed over the reef bands. All linings are feamed on,
and are ftuck with 68 to 72 flitches in a yard.
“ Main, fore, and mizen, topfails have leech linings,
malt and top linings, buntline cloths, middle bands and
reef bands. The leech linings are made of one breadth
ei cloth, fo cut and fewed as to be half a cloth broad
at the head, and a cloth and a half broad at the foot j
the piece cut out being half the breadth of the cloth at
one end, and tapering to a point at the other. The
middle bands are put on half way between the lower
reef and foot, the buntline cloths join the top-linings,
and the buntline cloths and top-linings are carried up to
the lower fide of the middle band, which is tabled on
them. The maft lining is of two cloths, and extends
from the foot of the fail to the lower reef, to receive the
beat or chafe of the maft. The middle band is made of
one breadth of canvas, of the fame number as the top
lining. It is firft folded and rubbed down, to make a
creafe at one third of the breadth j then tabled on the
felvage, and ftuck along the creafe •, then turned down,
and tabled and ftuck through both the double and fingle
parts, with 68 to 72 flitches in a yard. It is the opi¬
nion of many, that middle bands fliould not be put on
until the fail is half wrorn.
“ Main and fore topfails have three and fometimes
four reef bands from leech to leech, over the leech li¬
nings ; the upper one is one eighth of the depth of the
fail from the head, and they are the fame diftance afun-
der in the royal navy, but more in the merchant fervice.
The reef bands are each of half a breadth of canvas put
on double ; the firft fide is ftuck twice, and the laft turn¬
ed over, fo that the reef holes may be worked upon the
double part of the band, which is alfo ftuck with 68 to
72 flitches in a yard.
“ The top lining of topfails is of canvas, N° 6 or 7.
The other linings of this, and all the linings of other
fails, fliould be of the fame quality as the fails to which
they belong.
“ Top-linings and m&ft cloths are put on the aft fide,
and all other linings on the fore fide, of fails. Mizens
are lined with one breadth of cloth from the clue five
yards up the leech, and have a reef band fewed on, in
the fame manner as on other fails, at one fifth the depth
of the fail from the foot ; they have alfo a nock-piece
and a peek-piece, one cut out of the other, fo that each
contains one yard. Mizen topfails of 50 gun fliips and
upwards have three reefs, the upper one is one eighth
of the depth of the fail from the head, and the reefs are
at the fame diftance afunder. Mizen topfails of ftiips
of 44 guns and under have two reefs one feventh part
of the depth of the fail afunder, the upper one being at
the fame diftance from the head. Main and main top
ftudding fails have each one reef, at one eighth of
the depth of the fail from the head. Reef bands
ftiould not be put on until the fail is fewed up, a
contrary praftice being very erroneous. Lower Hay-
fails,
(l) The dipping of the twine in tar, we are perfuaded, is a very bad pra&ice, for the reafon afligned in Rope-
Maki^g. See that article, N° 32,
S HIP -BUILD IN G. FI ate C C C C JLXXX1V.
<7
FTKCE, S of tlie HULL,.
ri.'dc c'cccj.xxxv
s HIP-B UIXjD IN G o
i
^ ■
!~7~
SHIP-BUILDING.
r>
Plate CC Cr.LXXX.VL
W^Tfrr/n Sci/lfy?,
.
SHIP
B UIBDHNH
Plate CCC C LXXXni.
TIT7>tnh ScuTp}
HlZ Tr*m<t *. ffrrtfc9 ?
r
♦
:
1
*.
:
#
Plate CCCCXCI.
Elate CCCCXCI.
>
.
S HIP - B L' l L D IX Gr.
Plate ccccxrn.
±
s. ■
.
SHir-Br tLDIX(i .
Plate CCCCXCV.
*
S H I P - B U
fails, fore top and main top idayfails, and flying jibs,
have clue-pieces two yards long. Square tack ftayfails,
have half a breadth of cloth at the fore part, with a
clue-piece containing two yards, and a peek-piece, con¬
taining one yard.
“ Sails have two holes in each cloth, at the heads
and reefs of courfes, topfails, and other Square fails j
one hole in every yard in the Hay of flying jibs, and
one in every three quarters of a yard in the {lays of
fquare tack and other ftayfails. Thefe are made by an
inftrument called a pegging awl, or a ftabber, and are
fenced round by Hitching the edge to a fmall grommet,
made with log or other line } when finifhed, they
lliould be w7ell ilretched or rounded up by a pricker or
a marline fpike. Reef and head holes of large fails have
grommets of twelve-thread line, worked round with. 18
to 2i flitches; fmaller fails have grommets of nine-
thread line, with 16 to 18 flitches, or as many as (hall
cover the line, and Imaller holes in proportion.. Ihe
holes for marling the clues of fails and the top brims of
topfails have grommets of log-line, and fhould have
from 9 to 11 flitches; twelve holes are worked in each
cloth. Main courfes have marling holes from the clue
to the lower bow line cringle up the leech, and from
the clue to the firft buntline cringle on the foot, fore
courfes have marling holes one eighth of the depth of
the fail up the leech, and from the clue to the firft
buntline cringle at the] foot. Main and fore topfails
have marling holes three feet each way from the clue
and at the top-brims. Spritfails, mizen topfails, lower
ftayfails, main and fore top ftayfails, and jibs, have
marling holes two feet each way from the clues. All
other fails are fewed home to the clues. Marling holes
of courfes are at three fourths of the depth of the tab-
lings at the clues from the rope, and thofe of topfails
are at half the depth of the tablings at the clues and top
brim from the rope.”
The rope, which is fewed on the edges of fails to
prevent their rending, and which is called bolt-rope,
fhould be well made of fine yarn, fpun from .the heft
Riga rhine hemp well topt, and fewed on with good
Englifh made twine of three threads, fpun 200 fathom
to the pound } the twine in the royal navy is dipped in
I L D I N G.
a compofition made with bees-wax, 4
5 lbs. and clear turpentine one pound } and in the mer¬
chant fervice, in tar foftened with oil. They fhould be
floved in a ftove by the heat of a flue, and not in a ba¬
ker’s oven or a ftove tub ; and tarred in the bell Stock¬
holm tar. The flexibility of them fhould be always con-
fidered, in taking in the flack, which muft reft on the
judgment of the failniaker.
“ Bolt ropes of courfes, topfails, and all other fails,
fhould be neatly fewed on through every buntline of the
rope ■, and, to avoid ftretching, the rope muft be kept
tightly twifted while fewing on, and care taken that
neither too much nor too little flack is taken in j they
are to be crofs Hitched at the leeches every twelve inches
in length \ at every feam, and in the middle of every
cloth at the foot, with three crofs-ftitches: four crofs-
flitches (hould be taken at all beginnings and faftenings
off-, the firft flitch given twice, and the laft three times.
Srr^n fidk It a vp two crofs flitches at every feam, and three
Appendix.
at every faftening off.
“ On main and fore courfes two inches flack clot A
fhould be allowed in the head and foot, and one inch and
a half in the leeches, in every yard in length. Topfails
are allowed 3 inches flack in every cloth in the foot,
one inch and a half in every yard in the leech, and two
inches in every cloth left open in the lop brim.. Mi¬
zen courfes have two inches flack in every yard in . the
foremoft leech, but none in the after leech or foot.
Spritfail courfes have no flack cloth. Jibs have four
inches flack in every yard in the flay, one inch in every
cloth in the foot, and none in the leech. Stayfails have
three inches flack in every yard in the ftay, one inch in
every cloth in the foot, but none in the leech, lopgallant
fails have two inches flack in every cloth in the foot,
and one inch in every yard in the leech. Studding fails
have an inch and a half flack in every yard in . goring
leeches, but no flack in fquare leeches, and one inch in
every cloth in the head and foot.”
Thefe dire&ions for failmaking, we truft may be ufe-
ful. They are indeed very general, but the failmaker
will find every inftru£lion that he can want, in the Ele¬
ments of Rigging and Seamanjhip, a wo*k which we there¬
fore recommend to his attention.
S H I
Ship's Form Gauge, an inftrument recommended by
Mr Hutchinfon as fit to afeertain any alteration in the
bottom of a fhip, by its hogging or fagging; and alfo
to regulate the flowage of a fhip.
“ All (hips (fays he) of any confequence are built
with flaunchions fixed from the kelfon to the middle of
all the lower-deck beams fore and aft, in order to lup-
port them in their exafl, regular height, as well as ttye
whole frame of the fhip in the regular form in which fhe
was built upon the flocks j yet notwithftanding thefe
flaunchions, it is proved from experience that our (hips
bottoms, hitherto, by the preffure of water, and impro¬
per ftowage, have generally been hogged upwards, or
fagged downwards, and moft about the midfhip frame
or main body of the fhip, which is commonly about the
fore part of the main hatchway; which naturally makes
SHI
it the heft place at which to fix the fhxp’s form gauge, Ship-,
where either the hogging or fagging of her bottom may ^
be obferved and feen fooneft and bell, to regulate the
ftowage of heavy materials to the greateft advantage, to
as to keep her bottom nearly in the fame form in which
fhe was built.
“ The gauge I recommend is nothing more than a
narrow plate of iron divided into inches and quarters
like the Aide of a carpenter’s rule. Let this be fixed
to the after fide of the ftaunchion now mentioned, with
its upper end projefting two or three inches above the
ftaunchion } a groove being cut out for it in.the after
fide of the lower-deck beam, and a mark being made
(when the fhip is on the flocks) at the part of the beam
which correfponds to the o on the gauge. Vv hen the
fhip alters in her fhape, the gauge will Aide up and
dowi»f
I
SHI [ 310 ] SHI
down In tills groove, and the quantity of hogging or
fagging will be pointed out on the gauge by the mark
on the beam. The ftowage may then be fo managed
as to bring this mark to coincide again with the o, or
to approach it as near as we fee neceffary.”
SlUP~Money, was an impofition charged upon the
ports, towns, cities, boroughs, and counties of this
realm, in the reign of King Charles I. by writs, com¬
monly called /hip-writs, under the great feal of Eng-
land, in the years 1635 and 1636, for the providing
and furnilhing of certain Ihips for the king’s fervice, &.c.
which was declared to be contrary to the laws and fia-
tutes' of this realm, the petition of right and liberty of
the fubjeft, by flat. 17 Car. I. c. 14. See B/acifone's
Commentaries, vol. iv. p. 30.
SHIP-Shape, according to the fafhion of a drip, or in
the manner of an expert failor 5 as, The mail is not
rigged ihip-fhape ; Trim your fails (tiip-lhape.
Stowing and Trimming of SHIPS, the method of dif-
pofing of the cargo in a proper and judicious manner in
the hold of a (hip.
A Ihip’s failing, fleering, flaying, and wearing, and
being lively and comparatively eafy at fea in a florm,
depends greatly on the cargo, ballaft, or other mate¬
rials, being properly flowed, according to their weight
and bulk, and the proportional dimenfions of the built
of the fliip, which may be made too crank or too ftiff
to pafs on the ocean with fafety. Thefe things render
this branch of knowledge of fuch confequence, that rules
for it ought to be endeavoured after, if but to prevent,
as much as poffible, the danger of a fhip overfetting at
fea, or being fo labourfome as to roll away her
marts, &c. by being improperly flowed, which is often
the cafe.
When a fliip is new, it is prudent to confult the
builder, who may be fuppofed bell acquainted with a
fhip of his own planning, and rnofl likely to judge what
her properties will be, to advife how the cargo or mate¬
rials, according to the nature of them, ought to be dif-
pofed of to advantage, fo as to put her in the beft fail¬
ing trim ; and at every favourable opportunity after¬
wards it will be proper to endeavour to find out her beft
trim by experiment.
Ships muft differ in their form and proportional di¬
menfions ; and to make them anfwer their different pur-
pofes, they will require different management in the
flowage, which ought not to be left to mere chance, or
done at random, as goods or materials happen to come
to hand, which is too often the caufe that fuch impro¬
per ftowage makes {hips unfit for fea l therefore the
flowage fliould be confidered, planned, and contrived,
according to the built and properties of the fliip, which
if they are not known fliould be inquired after. If ftie
is narrow and high-built in proportion, fo that flie will
not fhift herfelf without a great weight in the hold, it
is a certain fign fuch a fliip will require a great part of
heavy goods, ballaft, or materials, laid low in the hold,
to make her ftiff enough to bear fufficient fail without
being in danger of overfetting. But if a ftiip be built
broad and low' in proportion, fo that flie is ftiff and will
fupport herfelf without any weight in the hold, fuch a
fliip will require heavy goods, ballaft, or materials, flow¬
ed higher up, to prevent her from being too ftiff and
labourfome at fea, fo as to endanger her marts being
rolled away, and the hulTworked loofe and made Ship-
leaky. '
In order to help a fliip’s failing, that flie fliould be
lively and eafy in her pitching and afcending motions,
it fliould be contrived by the ftowage, that the princi¬
pal and weightieft part of the cargo or materials ftiould
lie as near the main body of the ihip, and as far from
the extreme ends, fore and aft, as things will admit of.
For it ftiould be confidered, that the roomy part of our
{hips lengthwife forms a fweep or curve near four times
as long as they are broad 5 therefore thofe roomy parts
at and above the water’s edge, which are made by a
full harping and a broad tranfom to fupport the ftiip
fteady and keep her from plunging into the fea, and
alfo by the entrance'Wd run of the ftiip having little or
no bearing body under for the preffure ©f the water to
fupport them, of courfe ftiould not be flowed with hea¬
vy goods or materials, but all the neceffary vacancies,
broken How-age, or light goods, ftiould be at thefe ex¬
treme ends fore and aft; and in proportion as they are
kept lighter by the ftowage, the ftiip will be more lively
to fall and rife eafy in great feas; and this will contri¬
bute greatly to her working and failing, and to prevent
her from ftraining and hogging ; for which reafon it is a
wrong praftice to leave fuch a large vacancy in the main
hatchway, as is ufual, to coil and work the cables;
which ought to be in the fore or after hatchway, that
the principal weight may be more eafily flow ed in the
main body of the {hip, above the flatteft and loweft
floorings, where the preffure of the water a£ls the more
to fupport it.
Improved Capfan of SHIPS.—A capftan has been
contrived by Mr Bofwell, which works without re¬
quiring the meffenger or cable coiled around it, to bd
ever furged ; an operation which is neceffary with com¬
mon capftans, and is always attended with delay, and
frequently with danger. This capftan has been appro¬
ved by fome gentlemen conne£ted with the Britiih
navy. A model of this machine was prefented to the
Society for the Encouragement of Arts, and Mr Bofi
well received the gold medal of the fociety for Ins in¬
vention *. . * Tranf tot
For the information of thofe unacquainted with ma-'Sc7. Phil
ritime affairs, Mr Bofwell gives an account of the man--S'- XXX1‘
ner in which cables are hauled on board of large fliips.2
For the purpofe of {hewing the advantage of his impro¬
ved capftan, cables, he ebferves, above a certain diame¬
ter are too inflexible to admit of being coiled round a
capftan; in {hips udrere cables of fuch large dimenfions
are neceffary, a fmaller cable is employed for this pur¬
pofe, wduch is called the me(fetiger, the two ends of
which are made fall together fo as to form an endlefs
rope, which, as the capftan is turned about, rolls round
it in unceafing fuccefllon, paffing on its courfe to the
head of the {hip, and again returning to the capftan.
To this returning part of the meffenger, the great cable
is made fail by a number of fmall ropes called nippers,
placed at regular intervals; thefe nippers are applied,
as the cable enters the hawfe hole, and are again re¬
moved as it approaches the capftan, after which it is
lowered into the cable tier.
The meffenger, or any other rope coiled round the
capftan, muft defeend a {pace at every revolution equal
to the diameter of the rope or cable ufed ; this circum-
ftance
2
SKI [3
Sliip. ftance brings the coils in a few turns to the bottom of
v-—'-' the capftan, when it can no longer be turned round, till
the coils are loofened and raifed up to its other extre¬
mity, after which the motion proceeds as before. This
operation of drifting the place of the coils of the mef-
lenger on the capftan is called /urging the meffenger.
It always caufes confiderable delay ; and when the mef¬
fenger chances to dip in changing its pofition, which
fometimes happens, no fmall danger is Incurred by thofe
who are employed about the capdan.
One method of preventing the necefirty of furging,
by placing a horizontal roller beneath the mefienger
when i; firft enters on the capdan, adds confiderably to
the labour in turning the capftsn, and the great friction
which the meffenger mult fuffer, mult occalion a very
great wear and injury to the mtffenger.
Another method to prevent furging was, that for
which Mr Piucknet obtained a patent. In this way a
number of upright lifters, placed round the capftan,
were made to rife in fucceffion as the capftan turned
round by a circular inclined plane placed beneath them;
a method Mr Bofwell thinks fuperior to the former ;
but dill the wrear of the meffenger from the lateral
friction in rifing again!! the whelps of the capftan re¬
mains undiminilhed.
A third method propofed by Captain Hamilton, left
the lateral frtdlion, and wear of the meffenger again!!
the whelps of the capftan, as great as in the others, ha¬
ving alfo the inconvenience of caudng the coils to be¬
come loofe as they afeend, the upper part of the barrel
being nearly one third lefs in the diameter than the
lower part.
In Mr Bofwell’s method of preventing the neceftity
of furging, none of the lateral friflion of the meffenger
or cable again!! the whelps of the capftan, can poffibly
take place, and of courfe the wear of the meffenger oc-
cadoned thereby will be entirely avoided, while it per¬
forms its purpofe with a lefs moving power than any of
them.
His method condfts in the fimple addition of a fecond
fmaller barrel or capftan of lefs dimenfions to the large
one ; hedde which it is to be placed in a fimilar manner,
and which need not in general exceed the dze of a half
barrel cafk. The coils of the meffenger are to be
paffed alternately round the large capftan and this fmall
barrel, but with their dire&ion reverfed in the different
barrels, fo that they may crofs each other in the inter¬
vals between the barrels, in order to have the more ex-
tendve contaf! with, and better gripe on each barrel.
To keep the coils diftinfl, and prevent their touching
each other in paffing from one barrel to the other, pro-
jecling rings are fattened round each barrel at a diftance
from each other equal to about two diameters of the
meffenger, and the thicknefs of the ring. Thofe rings
fhould be fo dxed on the two barrels that thofe on one
barrel fhould be exa£!ly oppodte the middle of the in¬
tervals between thofe on the other barrel; the only cir-
cumftance which requires particular attention in the
conftruftion of this capftan. The rings fhould projef!
about as much as the meffenger from the barrels, which
may be formed with whelps, and in every other refpef!,
not before mentioned, in the ufual manner for capftan
barrels. The ftnall barrel fhould be furnifhed with fall¬
ing palls as well as the large one; a dxed iron fpindle
afeending from the deck will be the bei! for it, as it
Shi
u] SHI
will take up lefs room. The fpindle may be fecured be¬
low the deck, fo as to bear any ft rain, as the fmall bar- ^
rel need not be much above half the height of the large
barrel; the capftan bars can eadly pafs over it in heav¬
ing round, when it is thought dt to ufe capftan bars on
the fame deck with the fmall barrel. As two turns of
the mtffenger round both barrels will be at leaf! equi¬
valent to three turns round the common capltan, it
will fcarcely ever be neceffary to ufe more than four
turns round the two barrels.
That which prevents the lateral fri£lion of the mef¬
fenger in Mr Bofwell’s double capftan is, that in it each
coil is kept diitind! from the reft, and mul! pafs on to
the fecond barrel before it can gain the next elevation
on the drft, by which no one coil can have any influence
in railing or depreffmg another; and what each iepa-
rate coil defeends in a dngle revolution it regains as
much as is neccffavy in its paffage between the barrels
when in the air, and free from all con tad! with any part
of the apparatus, it attains a higher elevation without a
poffibility of friftion or wear.
It is equally applicable in large and in fmaller veffels,
in the former of which meffengers are neceffary, from
the dze of the cables; but in the latter alfo, where
cables can be managed with the fame eafe as meffengers.
The fame principle may be alfo eadly applied to wind-
laffes by having a fmall horizontal barrel placed paral¬
lel to the body of the windlafs, and havings both dtted
with rings in the fame way as is propofed for the cap¬
ftan, The place for the fmall horizontal barrel is for¬
ward, juft before the windlafs, and it fhould alfo be
furnilhed with catch polls.
Beddes the advantages now dated, the improved cap¬
ftan is dmple in its conilruclion can be dtted up at dnall
expence, is eadly repaired, and requires but little room.
A reprefents the common capftan; B, another of
fmaller dimendoivs ; C the coils of the meffenger paffing ccccxtiV“
alternately round the large and fmall capftans, but with
the dieeflion reverfed on the different barrels, fo that
they may crofs each other in the interval between them ;
DDDD, are projefling rings round each barrel, fo fixed
on the two barrels, that thofe on one barrel fhould be
exaflly oppodte the middle of the intervals between
thofe on the other barrel.
Machine for meafuring a Ship's Way .—'We. have al¬
ready deferibed a variety of machines or inflruments
which have been propofed for this purpofe under the
article Log. In this place, therefore, we fhall confine
ourlelves to the machine invented by Francis Hopkin-
fon, Efq. Judge of the Admiralty in Pennfylvania.—1 ions of the
After having fliown the fallacies to which the common ''■‘'/'‘f/•
log, and alfo that particular kind of inftrument invent-^/ Society,
ed by M. Saumarez, are liable, he proceeds to defcriberol. ii. p.
his own machine as follows : lt50-
This machine, in its moft dmple form, is reprefented
by dg. 5. wherein AB is a ftrong rod of iron moveable ‘ '
on the fulcrum C. D is a thin circular palate of brafs
rivetted to the lower extremity of the rod. E a hori¬
zontal arm connected at one end with the top of the
rod AB by a moveable joint F, and at the other end
with the bottom of the index H, by a like moveable
joint G. H is the index turning on its centre I, and
travelling over the graduated arch K; and L is a
ftrong fpring, bearing againft the rod AB, and con-
ftantly counteracling the preffure upon the palate D.
The,,
Plate
Fig. 5-
Fig. 6.
Fig. 7.
SHI [3
The rod AB fhould be applied clofe to the cut-water
or Item, aud fhould be of fuch a length that the palate
D may be no higher above the keel than is neceffary to
fecure it from injury when the veffel is aground, or fails
in thoal water. As the bow of the (hip curves inward
towards the keel M, the palate D will be thrown to a
dittance from the bottom of the vefl’el, although the
perpendicular rod to which it is annexed lies clofe to
the bow above ; and therefore the palate will be more
fairly ached upon. The arm E ihould enter the bow
fomewhere near the hawfe hole, and lead to any con¬
venient place in the forecaftle, where a Smooth board or
plate may be fixed, having the index H, and graduated
arch K, upon it.
It is evident from the figure, that as the (hip is
urged forward by the wind, the palate D will be preff-
ed upon by the refitting medium, with a greater or lefs
force, according to the progreflive motion of the (hip $
and this will operate upon the levers fo as to immediate¬
ly affedt the index, making the lead increafe or diminu¬
tion of the Chip’s way vifible on the graduated arch ;
the fpring L always counteracting the preffure upon
the palate, and bringing back the index, on any relax¬
ation of the force imprefled.
This machine is advantageoufiy placed at the bow of
the (hip, where the current firft begins, and ads fairly
upon the palate, in preference to the ftern, where the
tumultuous doling of the water caufes a wake, vifible
to a great diftance. The palate D is funk nearly as
low as the keel, that it may not be influenced by the
heaping up of the water and the dafliing of the waves
at and near the water line. The arch K is to afcertain
how many knots or miles (he would run in one hour at
her then rate of failing. But the graduations on this
arch mutt be unequal; becaufe the refiftance of the
fpring L will increafe as it becomes more bent, fo that
the index will travel over a greater fpace from one to
five miles than from five to twelve. Lattly, The palate,
rod, fpring, and all the metallic parts of the inftrument,
ihould be covered with a ftrong yarnifti, to prevent ruft
from the corrofive quality of the fait water and fea air.
This machine may be confiderably improved as fol¬
lows : Let the rod or fpear AB (fig. 5.) be a round
rod of iron or fteel, and inftead of moving on the ful¬
crum or joint, as at C, let it pafs through and turn
freely in a focket, to which focket the moveable joint
mutt be annexed, as reprefented in fig. 6. The rod
mutt have a (boulder to bear on the upper edge of the
focket, to prevent its (lipping quite down. The rod
mutt alfo pafs through a like focket at F, fig. 5. The
joint of the lower focket mutt be fixed to the bow of
the (hip, and the upper joint or focket mutt be connect¬
ed with the horizontal arm E. On the top of the up-
permoft focket let there be a fmall circular plate, bear¬
ing the 32 points of the mariner’s compafs j and let
the top of the rod AB come through the centre of this
plate, fo as to carry a fmall index upon it, as is repre¬
fented in fig. 7. This fmall index mutt be fixed to the
top of the rod on a fquare, fo that by turning the in¬
dex round the plate, the rod may alfo turn in the foc-
kets, and of courfe carry the palate D round with it ;
the little index always pointing in a direCHon with the
face of the palate. The fmall compafs plate fhould not
be fattened to the top of the focket, but only fitted
tightly on, that it may be moveable at pleafure, Sup-
12 ] SHI
pofe then the intended port to bear S. W. from the SI.
place of departure, the palate mutt be turned on the foC-'“""—V
ket till the fouth-weft point thereon looks direftiy to
tae (hip’s bow; fo that the fouth-weft and north-eatt
line on the compafs plate may be precifely parallel with
the (hip’s keel, and in this pofition the plate mutt:
remain during the whole voyage. Suppofe, then, the
(hip to be (ailing in the direCt courfe of her intended
voyage, with her bowfprit pointing fouth-wett. Let the
little index be brought to the fouth-weft point on the
compafs plate, and the palate D will necelfarily prefent
its broad face toward the port of deftination j and this it
mutt always be made to do, be the (hip’s courfe what it
may. If, on account of unfavourable winds, the (hip is
obliged to deviate from her intended courfe, the little
index mutt be moved fo many points from the fouth-
weft line of the compafs plate as the compafs in the
binnacle (hall (how that (he deviates from her true couife j
fo that in whatever direCHon the (hip (hall fail, the pa¬
late D will always look full to the fouth-weft point of
the horizon, or towards the port of deftination, and
confequently will prefent only an oblique furface to the
refitting medium, more or lefs oblique as the (hip devi¬
ates more or lefs from the true courfe of her voyage. As,
therefore, the refiftance of the water will operate lefs
upon the palate in an oblique than in a direCt pofition,
in exaCI proportion to its obliquity, the index H
will not (how how many knots the veflel runs in her
then courfe, but will indicate how many (he gains in
the direCt line of her intended voyage Thus, in
fig. 9. if the (hip’s courfe lies in the direCHon of the . -
line AB, but (lie can fail by the wind no nearer than11**’
AC; fuppofe, then, her progre(five-motion fuch as to
perform AC equal to five knots or miles in an hour,
yet the index H will only point to four knots on the
graduated arch, becaufe (lie gains no more than at that
rate on the true line of her voyage, viz. from A to B.
Thus will the difference between her real motion and
that pointed out by the index be always in proportion
to her deviation from her intended port, until (he fails
in a line at right angles therewith, as AD j in which
cafe the palate would prefent only a thin (harp edge to
the refitting medium, the preffure of which (hould not
be fufficient to overcome the friCHon of the machine
and the bearing of the fpring L. So that at whatever
rate the (hip may fail on that line, yet the index will
not be affeCIed, (bowing that (he gains nothing on her
true courfe. In this cafe, and alfo when the veffel is
not under way, the aCHon of the fpring L (hould caufe
the index to point at O, as reprefented by the dotted
lines in fig. 5. and 8.
As the truth of this inftrument mutt depend on the
equal preffure of the refitting medium upon the palate
D, according to the (hip’s velocity, and the propor¬
tionable aCHon of the fpring L, there fhould be a pin
or ferew at the joints C and F, fo that the rod may be
readily unfhipped and taken in, in order to clean the
palate from any foulnefs it may contraCl, which would
greatly increafe its operation on the index H, and there¬
by render the graduated arch falfe and uncertain.
Further, the fpring L may be expofed too much to
injury from the fait water, if fixed on the outfide of the
(hip’s bow. To remedy this, it may be brought under
cover, by conftruCHng the machine as reprefented by
fie. 8. where AB is the rod, C the fulcrum or centre
ofFlg.S.
s H 1 [ ;
Ship, 0f Its motion, D the palate, E the horizontal arm
* leading through a frnall hole into the forecaftle j M is
a ftrong chain faftened at one end to the arm E, and at
the other to a rim or barrel on the wheel G, which by
means of its teeth gives motion to the femicircle I and
index H, The fpring L is fpiral, and enclofed in a box
or barrel, like the main-fpring of a watch. A fmall
chain is fixed to, and palling round the barrel, is fallen-
ed by the other end to the fuzee W. This fuzee is
connefted by its teeth with the wheel G, and counter-
a&s the motion of the palate D. N, N, are the two
fockets through which the rod AB pafles, and in which
it is turned round by means of the little index li. S
is the fmall compafs plate, moveable on the top of the
upper focket N. The plate S hath an upright rim
round its edge, cut into teeth or notches, fo that when
the index R is a little raifed up, in order to bring it
round to any intended point, it may fall into one of
thefe notches, and be detained there; otherwife the
preffure of the water will force the palate D from its
oblique pofition, and turn the rod and index round to
the direftion in which the {hip {hall be then failing,—
Should it be apprehended that the palate D, being
placed fo far forward, may affe£t the {hip’s tleerage, or
obflrudf her rate of failing, it Ihould be conlidered that
a very fmall plate will be fufficient to work the machine,
as one of three or four inches in diameter would pro¬
bably be fufficient, and yet not large enough to have
any fenfible effedl on the helm or {hip’s way.
The greatefl difficulty, perhaps, will be in gradua¬
ting the arch K, (if the machine is conftrudted as in
fig. 5.) 5 the unequal divifions of which can only be af-
certained by aflual experiment on board of each ffiip
refpeftively, inafmuch as the accuracy of thefe gradu¬
ations will depend on three circumftances, viz, the pofi¬
tion of the fulcrum C with refpedl to the length of the
rod, the fize of the palate D, and the ftrength or
bearing of the fpring L. When thefe graduations,
however, are once afcertained for the machine on board
of any one veffel, they will not want any future alte¬
rations, provided the palate D be kept clean, and the
fpring L retains its elafticitv.
But the unequal divifions of the graduated arch will
be unnecefiary, if the machine is conftru&ed as in fig. 8 ;
for as the chain goes round the barrel L, and then
winds through the fpiral channel of the fuzee W, the
force of the main fpring muft operate equally, or nearly
fo, in all pofitions of the index, and confequently the
divifions of the arch K may in fuch cafe be equal.
After all, it is not expe&ed that a {hip’s longitude
can be determined to a mathematical certainty by this
inftrument. The irregular motions and impulfes to
which a {hip is continually expofed, make fuch an ac¬
curacy unattainable, perhaps by any machinery : But if
it fhould be found as we {latter ourfelves it will on fair
experiment, that it anfwers the purpofe much better
ihan the common log, it may be confidered as an acqui-
fition to the art of navigation.
It fliould be obferved, that in afcertaining a {hip’s lon¬
gitude by a time-piece, this great inconvenience occurs,
that a fmall and trifling miflake in the time makes a
very great and dangerous error in the diflance run :
Whereas the errors of this machine will operate no far¬
ther than their real amount; which can never be great
Vol. XIX. Part I.
U3 ] SHI
or dangerous, if corrected by the ufual obfervations
made by mariners for correcting the common log.
A like machine, made in its Ample form (as at fig. 5.),
fo conflruCted as to {hip and unfliip, might occaiionaily
be applied alongfide about midlhips, in order to afcer-
tain the leeway ; which, if rightly ihown, will give the
{hip’s precife longitude. As to fea currents, this and
all other machines hitherto invented muft be fubjeCt to
their influence ; and proper allowances muft be made
according to the (kill and knowledge of the navigator.
Laftly, Some dd’cretion will be neceffary in taking ob¬
fervations from the machine to be entered on the log¬
book : that is, the moft favourable and equitable mo¬
ment fliould be chofen for the obfervation ; not whilft
the flnp is rapidly defcending the declivity of a wave,
or is Hiddenly checked by a liroke of the fea, or is m
the very act of plunging. In all cales, periods may be
found in which a thip proceeds with a true average
velocity; to difcover which, a little experience and at¬
tention will lead the Ikilful mariner.
It has been obferved of the machine now defcribed,
that an ingenious mechanic would probably conftruCl it
to better advantage in many refpects. The author only
meant to fuggeft the principle j experiment alone can
point out the beft method of applying it. He is fen¬
fible of at leaft one deficiency, viz. that the little index
R, fig. 4. will not be ftrong enough to retain the palate
D in an oblique pofition when the Ihip is failing by the
wind 5 more efpecially as the compafs plate S, in whofe
notched rim the index R is to fall, is not fixed to, but
only fitted tight on the focket N. Many means, how¬
ever, might be contrived to remedy this inconvenience.
SHIP Wreck. A French author has lately propofed
fome methods of faving the lives of perfons fhipwrecked
near the coaft. He obferves, that the moft proper
means for faving the crews of ftiipwrecked veflels is,
to eftabliih a rope of communication from them to the
{bore. To a bomb or cannon ball fhould be faftened
the end of a rope, extended afterwards in a zig-zag di¬
rection before the mortar or cannon, or fufpended on a
piece of wood raifed feveral feet. But as it was necef¬
fary to know if the cord would not break by the force
of the explofion and the velocity of the motion, the author
thought it proper to confult profeffional men. He ac¬
cordingly wrote to fome officers of the artillery in gar-
rifon at La Fere in France, and they almoft all replied
that the rope would infallibly break.
Not deeming this anfwer fatisfaflory, he happily con
ceived the idea of making the experiment on a fmall
fcale. He caufed a piece of the barrel of a mufket to
be filed into the form of a fmall mortar of 18 lines in
length internally •, and having tied a packthread to a
common ball of lead, he made an experiment which
perfedly fucceeded, as did many others which he after¬
wards repeated, even with the ftrongeft charges of
powder. This fuccefs he communicated to the officers of
artillery, who replied, that there was a great difference
between a quarter of an ounce of powder and four or
five pounds employed for a bomb ; and were ftill of opi¬
nion that the rope would break.
Having already made experiments, he was ftill dif-
pofed to doubt the truth of this affertion, and therefore
tried a four-inch mortar with a ball of the fame calibre,
and 18 ounces of powder, with a rope only three or
R r four
SHI [ si
ohip four lines in diameter, and his fuccefs was equally flat-
t j ^ tering as before. Thefe experiments were repeated by
. v. ' ■ order of government at La Fere, four times with an
eight-inch mortar, and three times with one of twelve
inches, all of which happily fucceeded. The fame
author goes on to obferve 5
“ It ought to be remembered, that a veflfel is never
caft away, or perilhes on the coaft, but becaufe it is
driven thither againft the will of the captain, and by
the violence of the weaves and the wind, which almoft
always blow's from the fea towards the {bore, without
which there would be no danger to be apprehended :
confequently in thefe circumftances, the wind comes al¬
ways from the fea, either dire&ly or obliquely, and
blows towards the fhore.
“ iff, A common paper kite, therefore, launched
from the veflfel and driven by the wind to the fhore,
would be fufEcient to fave a crew of 1500 feamen, if
fuch were the number of a {hip of war. This kite
would convey to the fhore a ftrong packthread, to the
end of which might be affixed a cord, to be drawn on
board by means of the firing of the kite ; and with this
cord a rope, or as many as ffiould be neceflfary, might
be conveyed to the (hip.
“ 2d, A fmall balloon, of fix or feven feet in diame¬
ter, and raifed by rarefied air, w'ould be alfo an excellent
means for the like purpofe. Being driven by the wind
from the veflel to the fhore, it would carry thither a
firing capable of drawing a cord with which feveral
ropes might be afterwards conveyed to the veflfel. Had
not the difcovery of Montgolfier produced any other
benefit, it would be entitled on this account to be con-
lidered as of great importance.
“ 3dly, A fky-rocket, of a large diameter, would be
of equal fervice. It W'ould alfo carry, from the veflel
to the fhore, a firing capable of drawing a rope after it.
“ Laflly, A fourth plan for faving the crew of a {hip-
wrecked veflel, is that of throwing from the veflel into
the fea an empty calk with a cord attached to it. The
wind and the waves would drive the calk to the fhore,
and afford the means of eftablifhing that rope of com¬
munication already mentioned.”
The author juft quoted fays, that he announced his
difcovery in a French journal in January 1794. It is,
however, to be obferved, that the method he propofes of
conveying a rope to the fhore, by faftening it to a bullet
or bomb, to be afterwards fired from a cannon or mor¬
tar, was propofed feme years ago by a ferjeant or of¬
ficer of artillery at Woolwich, and it is faid, fimilar ex-
> periments were made at Portfmoutfi, and fucceeded *.
™l-iv- SHIRAUZ. See Schiras.
• ' 247‘ SHIRE, is a Saxon word fignifying a divifion ; but
a county, comitatus, of the fame import, is plainly deri¬
ved from comes, “ the count of the Franks that is,
the earl or alderman (as the Saxons called him) of the
fliire, to wffiom the government of it wTas entrufted. This
he ufually exercifed by bis deputy, ftill called in Latin
vice-comes, and in Engliffi the fheriff, Jhrievc, or Jhire-
reeve, fignifying the “ officer of the fliire upon whom,
in procefs of time, the civil adminiftration of it totally
devolved. In fome counties there is an intermediate di¬
vifion between the fhire and the hundred •, as lathes in
Kent and rapes in Suflfex, each of them containing about
three or four hundred a-piece. Thefe had formerly
their lathe-reeves and rape-reeves, adling in fubordina-
4 ] S H O
lion to the fliire-reeve. Where a county is divided into Shift
three of thefe intermediate jurifdiftions, they are called 11
trilhings, %vhich were anciently governed by a trilhing , sfi°a(f
reeve. Thefe trithings ftiil fubfift in the large county v
of York, where, by an eafy corruption, they are deno¬
minated ridingsi the north, the eart, and the weft ridings.
SHIRL, Shorl, or Cockle, a fpecies of mineral.
See Mineralogy Index.
SHIRT, a loofe garment, commonly of linen, worn
next the body.—Some doubt the propriety of changing
the linen wffien a perfon is lick. Clean linen promotes
perfpiration 5 and it may be renewed as often as the pa¬
tient pleafes, wffiether the diforder be of the acute or the
chromcal kind. Except during a crifis in fevers, whilft
the patient is in a fweat, a change of linen, if well dried
and warmed, may be daily ufed.
Shirts wrere not worn by the Jews, Greeks, or Romans,
but their place wTas fupplied by thin tunicce of wool.
The want of linen among the ancients made frequent
walhings and ablutions necefiary.
SHIVER, a name given by miners to fome of the
ftrata which accompany coal. See Schistus, Minera¬
logy Index.
SHIVERS, in the fea language, names given to the
little rollers, or round wheels of pulleys.
SFIOAD, among miners, denotes a train of metal¬
line ftones, ferving to diredt them in the difcovery of
mines.
SHOJD-Stones, a term ufed by the miners of Cormvall
and other parts of this kingdom, to exprefs fuch loofe
mafles of ftone as are ufually found about the entrances
into mines, fbmetimes running in a ftraight courfe from
the load or vein of ore to the furface of the earth.
Thefe are ftones of the common kinds, appearing t@
have been pieces broken from the ftrata or larger maf-
fes; but they ufually contain mundic,or marcafitic mat¬
ter, and more or lefs of the ore to be found in the mine.
They appear to have been at fome time rolled about in
water, their corners being broken off, and their furface
fmoothed and rounded.
The antimony mines in Cornwall are always eafily dif-
covered by the ftioad-ftones, thefe ufually lying up to
the furface, or very nearly fo : and the matter of the
ftone being a white fpar, or debafed cryftal, in which
the native colour of the ore, which is a fhining bluifh
black, eafily difeovevs itfelf in ftreaks and threads.
Shoad-ftones are of fo many kinds, and of fuch va¬
rious appearances, that it is not eafy to deferibe or know
them ; but the miners, to whom they are of the greateft
ufe in the tracing or fearching after new mines, diftin-
guiflr them from other ftones by their wreight ; for if
very ponderous, though they lock ever fo much like
common ftones, there is great reafbn to fufpebl that they
contain fome metal. Another mark of them is their be¬
ing fpongy and porous ; this is a fign of efpecial ufe in
the tin countries ; for the tin fhoad-ftones are often fo
porous and fpongy, that they refemble large bodies
thoroughly calcined. There are many other appear¬
ances of tin fhoads, the very hardeft and firmeft ftones
often containing this metal.
When the miners, in tracing a flioad up hill, meet
with fuch odd ftones and earths that they know not
well what to make of them, they have recourfe to van¬
ning, that is, they calcine and powder the ftone, clay,
or whatever elfe is fuppoftd to contain the metal 5 and
then
\
S II O [ 31
Sanal tlicn wafliihg it in an inftrument, prepared for that pur-
S]|l pofe, and called a vanning Jhovc/, they find the earthy
 matter vvalhed away, and of the remainder, the ftony or
gravelly matter lies behind, and the metalline matter at
the point of the (hovel. If the perfon who performs
this operation has any judgement, he eafily difcovers not
only what the metal is that is contained in the fiioad,
but alfo will make a very probable guefs at what quan¬
tity the mine is likely to yield of it in proportion to the
ore.
SHOAL, in the fea language, denotes a place where
the wTater is (hallow ; and likewife a great quantity of
fifties, fuch as a Jhoal of herrings*
SHOCK, in Eleclricity. The effecf of the explofion
of a charged body, that is, the difcharge of its eleftricity
on any other body, is called the eleBricJhock.
SHOE, a covering for the foot, ufually of leather.
Shoes, among the Jew's, w'ere made of leather, linen,
rufh, or wood ; thofe of foldiers were fometimes of brafs
or iron. They were tied with thongs which pafifed un¬
der the foies of the feet. To put off their (hoes was an
nft of veneration •, it was alfo a fign of mourning and
humiliation : to bear one’s (hoes, or to untie the latchets
of them, wras confidered as the meanell fervice.
Among the Greeks (hoes of various kinds wrere ufed.
Sandals were worn by women of diftindlion. The La¬
cedemonians wore red (hoes. The Grecian (hoes gene¬
rally reached to the middle of the leg. The Romans
ufed two kinds of (hoes *, the ca/ceus, which covered the
whole foot fomewhat like our (hoes, and was tied above
with latchets or llrings 5 and the folea or flipper, which
covered only the foie of the foot, and was faftened with
leathern thongs. The calceus was always wmrn along
with the toga when a perfon went abroad : dippers w'ere
put on during a journey and at feafts, but it was reckon¬
ed effeminate to appear in public with them. Black
(hoes were worn by the citizens of ordinary rank, and
white ones by the women. Red (hoes were fometimes
worn by the ladies, and purple ones by the coxcombs
of the other fex. Red (hoes ivere put on by the chief
magiftrates of Rome on days of ceremony and triumphs.
The (hoes of fenators, patricians, and their children, had
a crefcent upon them which ferved for a buckle \ thefe
were called calcci lunati. Slaves wore no (hoes ; hence
they were called cretati from their dufty feet. Phocion
alfo and Cato Uticenfis went without (hoes. The toes
of the Roman (hoes were turned up in the point } hence
they were called calcci rojlrati, rep a mil, &c.
In the 9th and 10th centuries the grcateft princes of
Europe wore wooden (hoes, or the upper part of lea¬
ther and the foie of wood. In the reign of William
Rufus, a great beau, Robert, furnamed the horned, ufed
(hoes with long (harp points, (luffed with tow, and
twifted like a ram’s horn. It is faid the clergy, being
highly offended, declaimed againff the long-pointed
(hoes with great vehemence. The points, however,
continued to increafe till, in the reign of Richard II.
they were of fo enormous a length that they were tied
to the knees with chains, fometimes of gold, fometimes
• of filver. The upper parts of thefe (hoes in Chaucer’s
time were cut in imitation of a church window. The
long-pointed (hoes were called crachowes, and continued
in fafhion for three centuries in fpite of the bulls of
popes, the decrees of councils, and the declamations of
the clergy. At length tha parliament of England in-
5 ] S H O
terpofed by an aft A. D. 1463, prohibiting the ufe
of (hoes or boots with pikes exceeding two inches in
length, and prohibiting all (hoemakers from making
(hoes or boots with longer pikes under fevere penalties.
But even this was not (ufficient; it was neceffary to de¬
nounce the dreadful fentenceof excommunication againff;
all who wore (hoes or boots with points longer than
two inches. The prefent fafhion of (hoes was intro¬
duced in 1633, but the buckle was not ufed till 1670.
In Norway they ufe (hoes of a particular conftruftion,
confiding of two pieces, and without heels; in which
the upper leather fits clofe to the foot, the foie being
joined to it by many plaits or folds.
The (hoes or dippers of the Japanefe, as we are in¬
formed by Profeffor Thunberg, are made of rice-ffraw
woven, but fometimes for people of diffinftion of fine
flips of ratan. The (hoe confiffs of a foie, without up¬
per leather or hind-piece; forwards it is croffed by a
ftrap, of the thicknefs of one’s finger, which is lined
■with linen ) from the tip of the (hoe to the ffrap a cy¬
lindrical firing is carried, which paffes between the great
and fecond toe, and keeps the (hoe faff: on the foot.
As thefe (hoes have no hind-piece, they make a noife
when people walk in them like dippers. When the Ja¬
panefe travel, their ffioes are furnidied with three firings
made of twilled draw, with which they are tied to the
legs and feet, to prevent them from falling off. Some
people carry one or more pairs of dices with them on
their journeys, in order to put on new, when the old
ones are worn out. When it rains, or the roads arc-
very dirty, thefe dices are foon wetted through, and one
continually fees a great number of worn-out ffioes lying
on the roads, efpecially near the brooks, where travel¬
lers have changed their (hoes after waffling their feet.
Inftead of thefe, in rainy or dirty weather they wear
high wooden clogs, which underneath are hollowed out
in the middle, and at top have a band acrofs like a ftir-
rup, and a ftring for the great toe fo that they can
walk without foiling their feet. Some of them have
their draw (hoes faffened to thefe wooden clogs. The
Japanele never enter their houfes with their (hoes on ;
but leave them in the entry, or place them on the bencli
near the door, and thus are always barefooted in their
houfes, (o as not to dirty their neat mats. During the
time that the Dutch live at Japan, when they are fome¬
times under an obligation of paying vifits at the houfes
of the Japanefe, their own rooms at the faftory being
likewife covered with mats of this kind, they wear, in¬
ftead of the ufual (hoes, red, gi-een, or black flippers,
which, on entering the houfe they pull off: however;
they have (lockings on, and ffioes made of cotton fluff
with buckles in them, which (hoes are made at Japan,
and can be wafhed whenever they are dirty. Some
have them of black fatin, in order to avoid waffling-
them.
Shoe of an Anchor, a fmall block of wood, convex
on the back, and having a fmall hole, fufficient to con¬
tain the point of the anchor fluke, on the forefide. It
is ufed to prevent the anchor from tearing or wounding
the planks on the (hip’s bow, w-hen afeending or de~
feending •, for which purpofe the (lioe Aides up and down
along the how between the fluke of the anchor and the
planks, as being prefied clofe to the latter by the weight
of the former.
To SHOE, an Anchor, is to cover the flukes with a
R r 2 broad
S H O r 3
Ehceptak- broad triangular piece of plank, whefe area cr fupeifices
« ... Is much laiger than that of the flukes. It is intended
to give the anchor a fhonger and furer hold of the bot¬
tom in very foft and oozy ground.
SHOEMAKERS machine for working at in a ftard-
ing pofiure. A machine for tins purnofe was invented
by M.r 1 hcroas Paiker, who, on the 22d of November,
1S04, attended a committee appointed by the Society
of Arts, and informed them that he had made ufe of this
apparatus for twelve months, and found it very ufeful.
fie observed that all the work of fhoe-making may be
done with it (landing ; but that in fome parts thereof
he found an advantage in ufing along with it a high
flool ", and that prior to the ufe of this machine, he ne¬
ver faw or heard of a fimiiar invention ; and that he
found it of great fervice to his health.
He eflimated the colt of fuch a machine at tw'o gui¬
neas.
ecccxevi. ^ate CCCCXCVI. fig. 1. T, a bench (landing on
' u f°ur about four feet from the ground.
V, A circular cufliion affixed to the bench, in the
centre of which cufliion is an open fpace quite through
the bench, through which hole a leather (trap U is
brought up from below. This (trap holds the work and
lad firm upon the cufliion in any pofition required, by
means of the workman’s foot placed upon the treadle W.
X, Shews the lad upon the cufliion, with the drap
holding it firm.
Y, An implement ufed in clofing boots.
Z, A (mail flat leather cudiion, ufeful in adjufling
the lad and drap.
L, The dioe-lad fliewm feparate from the cufliion.
The round cufliion is formed of a circular piece of wood,
covered with leather or fluffed with wool or hair to give
it fome elafticity.
Another machine for the fame purpofe has been in¬
vented by Mr Holden of Fettleworth in Suflex, and the
following account of it was prefented to the Society of
Arts. He obferves that the fitting poflure had fo great¬
ly injured his health, as to render it neceflary to give up
his bufinefs, and in this difficulty he invented the ma¬
chine which he found to anfwer the purpofe fully, as it
enabled him to refume his work with the recovery of
his health. He recommends it as the quickeft way
of clofing all the thread work, and he adds, that he has
made 1800 or 2000 pairs of (hoes with the machine,
and flill continues to employ it. The following is a
defeription of the machine.
Kg. a. Fig. 2. A, The bed for the clofing block, and to lay
the flioe in, whilft fewnng.
B, The clofing block.
C, A loofe bed to lay the flioe in rvbilft ditching j
the lowrer part of which is here exhibited reverfed, to
fbe'v how it is placed in the other bed A.
D, The hollow or upper part of the loofe bed C, in
which the flioe is laid while flitching.
E, A table on which the tools wanted are to be laid.
F, An iron femi-circle, fixed to each end of the bed
A, to allow the bed to be raifed or depreffed. This half
circle moves in the block G.
H, Another iron femi-circle, with notches, which
catch upon a tooth in the centre of the block, to hold
the bed in any angle required. This femi-circle moves
fidevvife on trvo hooks in ftanles at each end of the bed.
I, The tail or Item of the bed A, moving in a cylin-
6 ] S H O
dricai hole in the pillar, enabling the bed to be turned Shoemak-
in any required direction, and which, with the move- ers
ment F, enables the operator to place the flioe in any , N.
pofition neceflary. .
K, The pillar, formed like the pillar of a clawtable,
excepting the two fide legs being in a direct line, and
the other leg at a right angle with them.
L, 1 he (emi-circle H, (hewn feparately, to explain
how it is conne&ed with the ftaples, and how the notches
are formed.
M, The tail or (tern of the bed A, and the lower
part of the bed N, (hewn feparately, to explain how the
upper part of the bed is raifed cr deprefied occafion-
aily.
HorJr-SuOL. See Farriery, N° 131.
SHOOTING, in the military art. See Artillery>
Gunnery, and Projectiles.
Shooting, in fportmanfliip, the killing of game by shcoting m
the gun, with or without the help of dogs. iportmaa-
Under this article we (hall lay down all the rules
which are neceflary to be obferved in order to ren¬
der one accompliflied and fuccefsful in the art of (hoot-
ing- . . 2
The firfl: thing which the fportfman ought to attend Diredlions
to is the choice of his fowling-piece. Conveniency re-for cho°*
quires that the barrel be as light as poffible, at the fame ^ng a. fowi’
time it ought to poflefs that degree of (Irength which in8 PleCe’
will make it not liable to burft. Experience has pro¬
ved, that a thin and light barrel, which is of equal
thicknefs in every part of its circumference, is much lefs
liable to burft than one which is conflderably thicker
and heavier, but which, from being badly filed or bored,
is of unequal ftrength in different places.
It is alfo of importance to determine of what length
the barrel ought to be, in order to acquire that range
which the fportfman has occafion for. On this fubjed
we have received- the following information from an ex¬
perienced fportfman. We have, at different times, com¬
pared barrels of all the intermediate lengths between 28
and 40 inches, and of nearly the fame caliber, that is to
fay, from 2 2 to 26 ; and thefe trials were made both by
firing the pieces from the (boulder, and from a firm
block, at an equal diflance, and with equal weights of
the fame powder and of the fame (hot.
To avoid every poffibility of error, the quires of papef
at which we fired were fixed againfi: planks inflead of
being placed againfl the wall. From thefe trials fre¬
quently repeated, we found that the (hot pierced an
equal number of (beets, whether it was fired from a
barrel of 28, 30, 3 2, 34, 36, 38, or 40, inches in length.
Nay more, we have compared two barrels of the fame
caliber, but one~of them 33, and the other 66 inches
long, by repeatedly firing them in the fame manner as
the others, at different dilfances, from 45 to 100 paces,
and the refults have always been the fame, i. e. the barrel
of 33 inches drove its (hot through as many fheets of
paper as that of 66 did. The conclufion from all this
is, that the difference of 10 inches in the length of the
barrel, which feems to be more than is ever infilled up¬
on among fportfmen, produces no fenfible difference in
the range of the piece ) and therefore, that every one
may pleafe himfelf in the length of his barrel, without
either detriment or advantage to the range.
It may agpear as an objection *o this, that a duck-gun
which is five oi fix feet long kills at a greater diftance
than
«
Slioemakers MA-CHINE.
Plate CCCCXC\ J •
. /.
yVTjirr'h 7 t>a Id
1
S H O [ 317 ] s H O
Slioct'nj.
3
Projjer
length of
the barrel
4
Caliber.
Length and
form of the
flock.
than a fowling-piece ; but this is not owing to its length,
but to its greater weight and thicknefs, which give it
fuch additional ftrength, that the (hot may be increafed,
and the charge of powder doubled, trebled, and even
quadrupled. But a barrel of five or fix feet length
would be very inconvenient for fowling. Thofe who
confult the appearance of the piece, lightnefs, and the
eafe with which it is managed, will find, that a barrel
from 32 to 38 inches will anfwtr bed.
The next thing to be confidered is, of what dimen-
flons the caliber or bore of a fowling-piece ought to be.
This matter has been fubjeffed to experiment, and it
has been found, that a barrel of 22 or 24, which is the
larged caliber ufually employed in fowling-pieces, throws
its fliot as clofely as one of the fmalled caliber, viz. of
30 or 32 (a).
As to the length and form of the dock, it may be
laid down as a principle, that a long dock is preferable
to a fhort one, and at the fame time rather more bent
than ufual •, for a long dock fits firmer to the dioulder
than a fhort one, and particularly fo when the (hooter
is accudomed to place his left hand, xvhich principally
fupports the piece, near to the entrance of the ramrod
into the dock.
It is certain, however, that the dock may be fo form¬
ed as to be better fuited to one man than another. For
a tall, long-armed man, the dock of a gun fliould be
longer than for one of a lefs datura and diorter arm.
That a draight dock is proper for him who has high
fhoulders and a diort neck ; for, if it be much bent, it
would be very difficult for him, efpecially in the quick
motion required in diooting at a dying or running ob-
jeft, to place the butt of the gun-dock firmly to the
ftioulder, the upper part alone would in general be fix¬
ed ; which would not only raife the muzzle, and confe-
quently (hoot high, but make the recoil much more fen-
fibly felt, than if the wdiole end of the dock were firm¬
ly placed on his fhoulder. Befides, fuppofing the (hoot¬
er to bring the butt home to his (boulder, he would
fcarcely be able to level his piece at the objeft. On
the contrary, a man with low fhoulders, and a long
neck, requires a dock much bent; for if it is draight,
he will, in the aft of lowering his head to that place of
the dock at which his cheek fhould red in taking aim,
feel a condraint which he never experiences, when by
the effeft of the proper degree of bent, the dock lends
him fome affidance, and, as it were, meets his aim half
way.
Having now defcribed the fowling-piece which has
been found to anfwer bed, it will next be proper to give
fome indruftions for the choice of gunpowder, fhot, and
5 wadding.
Beft pun- The various kinds of gunpowder are well known j
powder. in the opinion of fome experienced fportfmen, Her-
vey’s battle-powder is the bed. Thofe who wifh to ex-i
amine the drength of powder, may determine it by dry¬
ing fome of it very well, and then trying how many
flieets of paper it will drive the fhot through, at the di¬
fiance of xo or 12 yards. In this trial we fliould be
careful to employ the fame fized (hot in each experiment, Shootings
the quantity both of the fliot and the powder being re- v
gulated by exaft weight j otherwife we cannot, even in
this experiment, arrive at any certainty in comparing
the drength or different povvTders, or of the fame powder
at different times. <7
Powder ought to be kept very dry, for every degree ^ kept
of moidure injures it j and if confiderable, the faltpetredlT'
is dhTolved, and the intimate combination of the feveral
ingredients is entirely deitroyed. It is obferved, that
arter firing with damp powder the piece becomes very
foul, which feems to arife from the diminution of the
aftivity of the fire in the explofion. Flafks of copper
or tin are much better for keeping powder in than thofe
ma le of leather, or than (mail cafks. Their necks
ought to be imall and well flopped with cork. S
The patent milledJhot is now very generally ufed, and s’ze °f
is reckoned fuperior to any other. The fize of lheaiot‘
fliot mud vary according to the particular fpecies of
game which is the objeft'of the fportfman’s purfuit, as
well as be adapted to the feafon. In the fird month of
partridge (hooting, N° 1. is mod proper •, for fince at this
time the birds fpring near at hand, and rve feldom fire
at more than the diflance of 40 paces, if the diooter
takes his aim but tolerably well, it is almofl impoflible
for a bird at this diflance to efcape in the circle which
the fhot forms.
As hares fit clofer, and are thinly covered with fur at
this feafon, they may eafily be killed with this fhot at
30 or 33 paces. N° 1. is equally proper for (hooting
fnipes or quails. About the beginning of Oftober,
when the partridges are flronger, N° 3. is the mod pro¬
per fhot to be ufed. Many fportfmen ufe no other du¬
ring the w’hole feafon. I he direftions which have now
been given refer only to the patent fliot.
_ We (hall now fubjoin a table, which will (hew at one
view the number of pellets compofing an ounce weight
of each fort of fhot, the patent and the common, begin¬
ning with the fmalled fize.
N° 8.
7
X
1
2
3
4
5
N° 7.
6
5
4
3
2
Batent Shot.
x ounce
id.
(b) id.
ib
id.
id.
id.
id.
Common Shot.
ounce
id.
id.
id.
id.
id,
id.
620
480
300
220
180*
157
10 5
83
350
260
235
190
140
• - - no
“ - " 95 0
For a fowling-piece of a common caliber, which is Pr°p a t’on
from 24 to 30 balls to the pound weight, a dram and aof Powder
0 and Hi t in
quarter, tpe charge, •
(a) In fpeaking of the fize of the caliber, we mean by 22 or 24, that fo many balls exaftly fitting it weigh iud
one pound ; and every caliber is marked in the fame way, 5 J -
(b) 1 he reader will obferve that the patent fliot has no N° 6, the X being fubflituted in its place, and that the.
numbers do not follow each other in the order of progreffion ; The reafon of this we cannot aflign,
'Shooting.
lo
Wadding.
ir
Powder
and iliot
to be flight
ly rammed
down.
Directions
for loading
and tiring.
S H O [ '3
^quarter, or at moft a dram and a half, of good powder ;
and an ounce, or an ounce and a quarter of (hot, is fuf-
fleient. But when (hot of a larger fize is ufed, fuch as
N° 5. the charge of (hot may be increafed one-fourth,
for the purpofe ol counterbalancing in fome degree what
the fize of the fhot lofes in the number of pellets, and
alio to enable it to garnifh the more. For this purpofe
the fportfman will find a meafure marked with the proper
gauges very convenient to him. An inftrument of this
nature has been made by an ingenious artii! of London,
Egg, of the Haymarket.
A confequence of overloading with fhot, is the pow¬
der has not fufficient ftrength to throw it to its proper
diftance 5 for if the objeft fired at be diftant, one-half
of the pellets compofing the charge, by their too great
quantity and weight, will ftrike againft each other, and
fall by the way ; and thofe which reach the mark will
have imall force, and will produce but little or no ef-
fe£L
Fbe ufe of the wadding is to carry the fhot in a body
to a certain diftance from the muzzle of the piece. It
ought to be of foft and pliable materials. The beft kind
of wadding, in the opinion of an experienced fowler, is
a piece of an old hat; but this cannot be obtained in
fufficient quantity. Next to it nothing is better than
foft brown paper, which combines fupplenefs with con¬
fidence, moulds itfelf to the barrel, and never falls to
the ground within 1 2 or 15 paces from the muzzle of
the piece. Tow anfwers very well, and cork has been
extolled for poffeliing the peculiar virtue of increafing
the range and clofenefs of the Ihot.
The wadding ought to be quite clofe in the barrel,
but not rammed too hard ; for if it be rammed too clofe,
or be of a rigid fubftance, the piece will recoil, and the
fhot will fpread too much. On the other hand, if the
wadding be very loofe, or is compofed of too foft mate¬
rials, fuch as wool or cotton, the difeharge will not pof-
fefs proper force.
In loading a piece, the powder ought to be ffightly
rammed down by only preffing the ramrod two or three
' times on the wadding, and not by drawing up the ram¬
rod and then returning it into the.barrel with a jerk of
the arm feveral times. For when the powder is vio¬
lently comprefied, fome of the grains mull; be bruxfed,
which will prevent the explofion from being quick, and
will fpread the (hot too wide. In pouring the powder
into the barrel, the meafure ought to be held fo as that
the powder may fall moft readily to the bottom. That
no grains may adhere to the fides of the barrel, the
butt-end of the piece may be ftruck againft the ground.
The (hot ought never to be rammed down with force :
it is fufficient to ftrike the butt-end of the gun againft
the ground as before. Then the wadding is to be put
down gently. A fportfman ought never to carry his
gun under his arm with the muzzle inclined downwards,
for this practice loofens the wadding and charge too
much.
Immediately after the piece is fired it ought to be re¬
loaded ; for while the barrel is ftill warm, there is no
danger of any moifture lodging in it to hinder the pow¬
der from falling to the bottom. As it is found that the
coldnefs of the barrel, and perhaps the moifture con-
denfed in it, diminiffies the force of the powder in the
firft Ihot; it is proper to fire off a little powder before
■the piece is loaded. Some prime before loading, but
4
18] S H O
this is not proper unlefs the touch-hole be very large. Shoots.
Alter every difeharge the touch-hole ought to be prick-v '
ed, or a Imall feather may be inferted to' clear away any
humidity or foulnefs that has been contrafted.
The fportfman having loaded his piece, muft next
prepare to fire. lor this purpofe he ought to place
his hand near the entrance of the ramrod, and at the
fame time grafp the barrel firmly. The muzzle ftrould
be a little elevated, for it is more ufual to Ihoot low
than high. This direction ought particularly to be at¬
tended to when the objeft is a little diftant; becaufe
fhot as well as ball only moves a certain diftance point
blank, when it begins to deferibe the curve of the na-
rabola. P
Practice foon teaches the fportfman the proper di-Diftance
fiance at which he fhould ftroot. The diftance at which the
he ought infallibly to kill any kind of game with patentfportfman
fhot, N° 3. provided the aim be well taken, is from 25 ^ht 10
35 Paces for the footed, and from 40 to 43 paces for
the winged, game. Beyond this diftance even to 50 or
55 paces, both partridges and hares are fometimes kill¬
ed ; but in general the hares are only flightly wounded,
and carry away the fhot; and the partridges at that di¬
ftance prefent fo fmall a furface, that they frequently
ercape untouched between the fpaces of the circle*. Yet
it does not follow that a partridge may not be killed
nnh N 3. patent fhot at 60 and even 70 paces diftance,
but then thefe fhots are very rare.
In fhooting at a bird flying, or a hare running acrofs,How tbe
it is neceffary to take aim before the objeft in proper- aim is to be
tion.to its diftance at the time of firing. If a partridgetaken‘
flies acrofs at the diftance of
3° or 35 paces, it will be
fufficient to aim at the head, or at moft but a fmall
[pace before it. If it be 50, 60, or 70 paces diftant, it
is then requifite to aim at leaft half a foot before the
head.. The fame practice ought to be obferved in
fhooting at. a hare, rabbit, or fox, when running in a
crofs direftion ; at the fame time making due allowance
for the diftance and fwiftnefis of the pace. Another
thing to be attended to is, that the fhooter ought not
involuntarily to flop the motion of the arms at the mo¬
ment of pulling the trigger; for the inftant the hand
flops in order to fire, however inconfiderable the time
be, the. bird gets beyond the line of aim, and the fhot
will mifs it. A fportfman ought therefore to accu-
ftom his hand while he is taking aim to follow the ob-
je<ft. When a hare runs in a ftraight line from the
fhooter, he fhould take his aim between the ears, other-
wife he will run the hazard either of miffing, or at
leaft not of killing dead, or as it is fometimes called
clean.
A fowling-piece fhould not be fired more than 20 orEver/pirt
25 times without being wafhed ; a barrel when foul nei-of rhe piece
ther fhoots fo ready, nor carries the fhot fo far as whento be kePc
clean. The flint, pan, and hammer, fhould be well‘jjean and
wiped after each fliot \ this contributes greatly to make* ''
the piece go off quick, but then it fhould be done with
fuch expedition, that the barrel may be reloaded whilft
warm, for the reafons we have before advanced. The
flint fhould be frequently changed, without waiting un¬
til it miffes fire, before a new one is put in. Fifteen or
eighteen fhots, therefore, fhould only be fired with the
fame flint 3 the expence is too trifling to be regarded,
and by changing it thus often much vexation will be
prevented.
A
S H O
[
16
When and
how game
is to be
fought for.
Shooting. A gun alfo (liould never be fired with the prime, of
—-v—’—' the preceding day j it may happen that an old priming
will fometimes go off well, but it will more frecjuenily
contraft moifture and fuze in the firing ■, then the ob-
jeft will moft probably be miffed, and that becaufe the
piece w'as not frefh primed.
For the information of the young fportfman we
{hall add a few more general directions. In warm wea¬
ther he ought to feek for game in plains and open
grounds, and in cold weather he may fearch little hills
expofed to the fun, along hedges, among heath, in
Hubbles, and in paftures where there is much furze and
fern. The morning is the beft time of the day, before
the dew is exhaled, and before the game has been di-
fturbed. The colour of the {hooters drefs ought to be
the fame with that of the fields and trees ; in fummer it
ought to be green, in winter a dark gray. He ought
to hunt as much as poffible with the wind, not only to
prevent the game from perceiving the approach of him
and his dog, but alfo to enable the dog to fcent the
game at a greater diftance.
He {hould never be difcouraged from hunting ana
ranging the fame ground over and over again, efpeci-
ally in places covered with heath, brambles, high giafs,
or young coppice wood. A hare or rabbit will fre¬
quently fuffer him to pafs feveral times within a few
yards of its form without getting up. He {hould. be
{till more patient when he has marked partridges into
fuch places, for it often happens, that after the birds
have been fprung many times, they lie fo dead that
they will fuffer him almoft to tread upon them before
they will rife. Pheafants, quails, and woodcocks do the
fame.
He ought to look carefully about him, never paffing
a bufti or tuft of grafs without examination ; but he
ought never to ftrike them with the muzzle of his gun
for it will loofen his wadding. He who patiently beats
and ranges his ground over again, without being dif-
couraged, will always kill the greateft quantity of game 5
and if he is {hooting in company, he will find game
where others have paffed without dilcovering any.
When he has fired he ihould call in his dog, that.he
may not have the mortification to fee game rife which
lie cannot {hoot. When he has killed a bird, inllead
of being anxious about picking it up, he ought to fol¬
low the reft of the covey with his eye till he fee them
fettle.
Three fpecies of dogs are capable of receiving the
proper inftruCtion, and of being trained. '1 hefe are
the fmooth pointer, the fpaniel, and the rough pointer.
The laid is a dog with long curled hair, and feems to
be a mixed breed of the w'ater-dog and the fpaniel.
The fmooth pointer is aCtive and lively enough in Ids
range, but in general is proper only for an open coun¬
try.
The greateft part of thefe dogs are afraid of water,
brambles, and thickets •, but the fpaniel and the rough
pointer are eafily taught to take the water, even in cold
weather, and to range the v.'oods and rough places as
well as the plain. Greater dependeTice may therefore be
had on thele two laid fpecies of dogs than on the fmooth
lS pointer.
DlretHions The education of a pointer may commence xvhen he
for training is only five or fix months old. The only leffons which
a pointer, can be taught at this time are to fetch carry any
17
Dogs tit
for fport.
9 ] S H O
thing when defired j to come in when he runs far off, Shootm:
and to go behind when he returns $ ufing, in the one —v—
cafe, the words here, come in, and in the other back or
behind. It is alfo neceflary at this period to accuftom
him to be tied up in the kennel or liable •, but he ought
not at fiift to be tied too long. He Ihould be let loofe
in the morning, and faftened again in the evening.
When a dog is not early accuftomed to be chained, he
diidurbs every perfon in the neighbourhood by howling.
It is alfo of importance that the perfon who is to train
him {hould give him his food.
When the dog has attained the age of 10 or 12
months, he may be carried into the field to be regularly
trained. At firit he may be allowed to follow' his own
inclination, and to run after every animal he fees. His
indiferiminating eagernefs will foon abate, and he wall
purfue only partridges and hares. He will foon become
tired of following partridges in vain, and will content
himfelf after having Hulked them to follow them with
his eyes. It will be more difficult to prevent him from
following hares.
All young dogs are apt to rake; that is, to huntw’ith
their noles clofe to the ground, to follow buds rather
by the track than by the wind. But partridges lie
much better to dogs that wind them, than to tnote thai,
follow them by the track. The dog that winds the
fcent approaches the birds by degrees and without di-
fturbing them; but they are immediately alarmed whetv-
they fee a dog tracing their footfteps. When you per¬
ceive that your dog is. committing this fault, carl to him
in an angry tone hold up : he will then grow uneafy and
agitated, going firft to the one fide and then to the
other, until the wind brings him the {cent or the birds.
After finding the game four or five times in this way, he
will take the wind of himfelf, and hunt with his nofe
high. If it be difficult to correft this fault, it will be
neceffaiy to put ihz flwzrz/e peg upon him. I his is oi
very fimple conftru£tion, confiding only of a piece 01
oak or deal inch board, one foot in length, and an inch
and a half in breadth, tapering a little to one end ; at
the broader end are two holes running longitudinally^,
through w'hich the collar of the dog is put, ami the
whole is buckled round his neck 5 the piece of wood be¬
ing projected beyond his nofe, is then faftenecl with a
piece of leather thong to his under jaw. By this means
the peg advancing feven or eight inches beyond his -
fnout, the dog is prevented from putting his nofe to the
ground and raking.
As foon as the young dog knows his game, you muff
bring him under complete {objection. If he is tradable, .
this will be eafy ; but if he is ftubborn, it will be necef-
fary to ufe the tra/h cord, which is a rope or cord of 20
or 25 fathoms in length faftened to his cellar. If he re-
fufe to conje back when called upon, you muft check
him fmartly with the cord, which will often bring him
upon his haunches. But be fure you never call to him
except uffien you are within reach of the cord. After re¬
peating this feveral limes he wall not fail to come back
when called •, he ought then to be carefled, and a bit of
bread {hould be given him. He ought now conftantly
to be tied up, and never unchained, except when you
give him his food, and even then only when he has done
fomething to deferve it.
The next ftep will be to throw down a piece of
bread on the ground, at the fame moment taking hold
cf-
S HO [ 3
^.‘viiooting. of the dog by the collar, calling out to him, “ take
v" heed,—foftly.” After having held him in this manner
for fome fpace of time, fay to him, “ feize—lay hold.”
If he is impatient to lay hold of the piece of bread be¬
fore the fignal is given, correft him gently with a fmall
whip. Repeat this leffon until he “ takes heed” well,
and no longer requires to be held fall to prevent him
from laying hold of the bread. When he is well ac-
cuflomed to this manege, turn the bread with a flick,
holding it in the manner you do a fowling-piece, and
having done fo, cry fe'rze. Never fuller the dog to eat
other in the houfe or field without having firlt made
him take heed in this manner.
Then, in order to apply this leflbn to the game, fry
fmall pieces of bread in hogs lard, with the dung of par¬
tridge ; take thefe in a linen bag into the fields, Rub¬
bles, ploughed grounds, and paftures, and there put the
pieces in feveral different places, marking the fpots with
little cleft pickets of wood, which will be rendered more
didinguilhable by putting pieces of card in the nicks.
I his being done, call off the dog and conduff him to
thefe places, always hunting in the wind. After he has
caught the fcent of the bread, if he approaches too near,
and feems eager to fall upon it, cry to him in a mena¬
cing tone, take heed j” and if he does not flop imme¬
diately, correeff him with the whip. He will foon com¬
prehend what is required of him, and will Hand.
At the next leffon, take your gun charged only with
powder, walk gently round the piece of bread once or
twice, and fire inffead of cryingjte/sse. The next time
of pradtifing this leffon, walk round the bread four or
five times, but in a greater circle than before, and con¬
tinue to do this, until the dog is conquered of his impa¬
tience, and will rtand without moving until the fignal is
given him. When he keeps his point well, and Hands
Ready in this leffon, you may carry him to the birds ;
if he run in upon them, or bark when they fpring up,
you mufl corredf him and if he continue to do fo,
you muR return to the fried bread ; but this is feidom
neceffary.
When the dog has learned by this ufe of the bread
to take heed, he may be carried to the fields with the
trafli-cord dragging on the ground. When he fprings
birds for the firR time, if he runs after them or barks,
check him by calling out to him, take heed. If he point
properly, carefs him \ but you ought never to hunt
j9 without the cord until he point Raunch.
and pre- . If the dog runs after ffieep, and it be difficult to cure
running a/ Wm’ C0UPle him wIth a ram, and then whip the dog as
ter fireep. long as you can f®U°w him. His cries will at firR
alarm the ram ; he wall run with all his fpeed, and drag
the dog along with him ; but he will at length take
courage, turn upon the dog, and butt him feverely with
his horns. When you think the dog is fufficiently chaf-
tifed, untie him : he will never run at ffieep again.
Having now given a lew general inflrudlions concern¬
ing the beR method of training pointers, we ffiall fub-
join a few obfervations refpefting the moR common fpe-
cies of game, the partridge, pheafant, groufe, wood¬
cock, fnipe, and wild duck.
Partridges pair in the fpring, and lay their eggs (ge¬
nerally from 15 to 20) during May and part of June.
The young begin to fly about the end of June, and
their plumage is complete in the beginning of Oftober.
The male has a confpicuous horfe flioe upon his breaff,
3
20
Obferva¬
tions con¬
cerning the
partridge.
20 ] S H O
an obtufe fpur on the hinder part of the leg, which di- Shooting.
Ringuiflx him from the female. He is alfo rather lar-  
ger.
When a fportfman is fliooting in a country where
the birds are thin, and he no longer choofes to range
the field for the bare chance of meeting with them,
the following method will Aiow him where to find them
on another day. In the evening, from funfet to night¬
fall, he fliould pofi hinffelf in a field, at the foot of a
tree or a bufh, and there wait until the partridges begin
to call or jack, which they always do at that time;
not only for the purpofe of drawing together when fe-
parated, but alfo when the birds compofing the covey
are not difperfed. After calling in this manner for
fome little fpace of time, the partridges will take to
flight ; then, if he mark the place where they alight,
he may be affiufcd they will lie there the whole night,
unlefs difturbed. Let him return to the fame poll the
next morning by break of day, and there watch a
while ; being careful to keep his dog in a firing, if he
is not under perfect command.
_ As foon as the dawn begins to peep, the partridges
iMil begin to call, and loon afterwards will perform the
fame manoeuvre as on the preceding evening ; that
h, after having called a while, they will take their
flight, and will mofl commonly lettle at a little ddfance.
There in a few minutes they will call again, and fome-
times take a fecond flight, but that will be to no great
dillance. Then as foon as the fun is rifen, and the
fportfman can lee to Ihoot, he may eafi off his dog and
purlue them. aj
The pheafan* is of the fize of a common dunghill Pheaiant.
cock, and lays its eggs generally in the woods, the num¬
ber of which is 10 or 12.
Pheafants are accounted fiupid birds; for when they
are furprifed they will frequently fquat down like a rab¬
bit, fuppofing themfelves to be in fafety as foon as their
heads are concealed ; and in this way they will fome-
times luffer themfelves to be killed with a flick. They
love low and moifl places, and haunt the edges of thofe
pools which are in found in woods, as well as the high
grafs of marlhes that are near at hand ; and above all,
places where there are clumps of alders.
Groufe, or moor-game, are found in Wales, in the Groufe.
northern counties of England, and in great abundance
in Scotland. They chiefly inhabit thofe mountains and
moors which are covered with heath, and feidom de-
feend to the low grounds. They fly in companies of
four or five braces, and love to frequent moffy places,
particularly in the middle of the day or when the wea¬
ther is warm. In purfuing this game, when the pointer
fets, and the fportfman perceives the birds running with
their heads ereft, he mufl run after them as fafl as he
can, in the hope that he may get near enough to flioot
when they rife upon the wing; for he may be pretty
certain they will not lie well that day. As thefe birds
are apt to grow foon putrid, they ought to be drawn
carefully the inRant they are Riot and fluffed with any
heath, and if the feathers happen to be wetted they muR
be wiped dry.
The woodcock is a bird of paffage ; it commonly ar- Woodoock*
rives about the end of Oftober, and remains until the
middle of March. Woodcocks are fattefl in December
and January, but from the end of February they are
lean, At their arrival they drop anywhere, but after¬
wards
24
Snipe.
2 S
^Vild duck.
S H O [ 32
Shooting, wards take up their refidence in copfcs of nine or ten
V years growth, JLhey feldorn, however, ftay in one
place longer than 12 or 15 days. During the day, they
remain in thofe parts of the woods where there are void
fpaces or glades, picking up earth-worms and grubs
from the fallen leaves. In the evening they go to drink
and wafh their bills at pools and fprings, after which
they repair to tlie open fields and meadows for the night.
It is remarkable, that when a woodcock fprings from a
wood to go into the open country, he always endeavours
to find fome glade or opening, which he follows to the
boundaries of the wood. At his return he purfues the
fame path a good way, and then turns to the right or
left oppofite to fome glade, in order to drop into a
thick part of the wood, where he may be flickered from
the wind. He may therefore be watched with advan¬
tage in thefe narrow paffes and little alleys on the edges
of woods which lead to a pool or fpring, or he may be
watched in the dulk of the evening near the pools which
he frequents.
The fnipe is a bird of paffage as Well as the wmod-
cock. This bird is fcarcely worth (hooting till the
froft commences. In the month of November they be¬
gin to grow fat. Snipes, like woodcocks, frequent
fprings, bogs, and marfliy places, and generally fly a-
gainft the wind. The flant and crofs (hots are rather
difficult, as the birds are fmall and fly very quickly.
The fportfman ought to look for them in the direttion
of the wind ; becaufe then they will fly towards him,
and prefent a fairer mark.
The ’wild duck is alfo a bird of paffage, and arrives
here in great flocks from the northern countries in the
beginning of winter. Still, however, a great many re¬
main in our marflies and fens during the whole year, and
breed.
The wild duck differs little in plumage from the tame
duck, but is eafily diftinguifhed by its fize,. which is
lefs •, by the neck, which is more (lender j by the foot,
which is fmaller ; by the nails, which are more black j
and above all, by the web of the foot, which is much
finer and fofter to the touch.
In the fummer feafon, when it is known that a team
of young ducks are in a particular piece of water, and
juft beginning to fly, the fportfman is fure to find them
early in the morning dabbling at the edges of the pool,
and amongft the long grafs, and then he may get very
near to them : it is ufual alfo to find them in thofe pla¬
ces at noon.
In the beginning of autumn almoft every pool is fre¬
quented by teams of wild ducks, which remain there
during the day, concealed in the rufhes. If thefe pools
are of fmall extent, two (hooters, by going one on each
fide, making a noife and throwing ftones into the ruflies,
will make them fly up 5 and they will in this way fre¬
quently get (hots, efpecially if the pool is not broad,
and contratts at one end. But the fureft and mod fuc-
cefsful way, is to launch a fmall boat or trow on the
pool, and to traverfe the ruflres by the openings which
are found •, at the fame time making as little noife as
poflible. In this manner the ducks will fuffer the fportf-
men to come fufliciently near them to (hoot flying ; and
it often happens that the ducks, after having flown up,
only make a circuit, return in a little time, and again
alight upon the pool. Then the fportfmen endeavour
a fecond time to come near them. If feveral (hooters
Vol. XIX. Part I.
Sho'e.
I ] S H O
are in company, they (hould divide j two fliould go in Shooting,
the boat, whilft the others fpread themfclves about the
edge of the pool, in order to (hoot the ducks in their
flight. In pools which will not admit a trow, water-
fpaniels are abfolutely neceffary for this fport.
In winter they may be found on the margins of little
pools; and when pools and rivers are frozen up, they
muft be watched for in places where there are fprings
and waters which do not freeze. The fport is then
much more certain, becaufe the ducks are confined to
thefe places in order to procure aquatic herbs, which
are almoft their only food at this period,
SHOP-lifters, are thofe that deal goods privately
out of (hops j w'hich, being to the value of 5 s. though
no perfon be in the (hop, is felony without the benefit
of clergy by the 10 and 11 W. III. c. 23.
SHORE, a place w^aflied by the fea, or by fome large
river.
Count Marfigli divides the fea-(hore into three por¬
tions : the firft of which is that trail of land which the
fea juft reaches in dorms and high tides, but which it
never covers ) the fecond part of the (hore is that which
is covered in high tides and dorms, but is dry at other
times} and the third is the defcent from this, which is
always covered with water.
The fird part is only a continuation of the continent,
and differs no alteration from the neighbourhood of the
fea, except that it is rendered fit for the growth of fome
plants, and wholly unfit for that of others, by the (aline
deams and impregnations : and it is fcarce to be con¬
ceived by any, but thofe who have obfervcd it, how far
on land the effefts of the fea reach, fo as to- make the
earth proper for plants which will not grow without
this influence; there being feveral plants frequently
found on high hills and dry places, at three, four, and
more miles from the fea, which yet would not grow un-
lefs in the neighbourhood of it, nor will ever be found
elfewhere.
The fecond part or portion of the (hore is much
more affefted by the fea than the former, being fre¬
quently w'aflied and beaten by it. Its produflions are
rendered fait by the water, and it is covered with fancl,
or with the fragments of (hells in form of fand, and in
fome places with a tartarous matter depofited from the
water j the colour of this whole extent of ground is
ufually du(ky and dull, efpecially where there are rocks
and ftones, and thefe covered with a (limy matter.
The third part of the (hore is more affedled by the
fea than either of the others j and is covered with an
uniform cruft of the true nature of the bottom of the
fea, except that plants and animals have their refidence
in it, and the decayed parts of thefe alter it a little.
Shore, Janet the celebrated concubine of the li¬
centious King Edward IV. was the wife of Mr Matthew
Shore, a goldfmith in Lombard-ftreet, London. Kings
are feldom unfuccefsful in their amorous purfuits; there¬
fore there was nothing wonderful in Mrs Shore’s remo¬
ving from Lombard-ftreet to flrine at court as the royal
favourite. Hiftorians reprefent her as extremely beauti¬
ful, remarkably cheerful, and of moft uncommon gene-
rofity. The king, it is faid, wTas no lefs captivated
with her temper than with her perfon *. (Ire never made
ufe of her influence over him to the prejudice of any
perfon ; and if ever (he importuned him, it was in fa¬
vour of the unfortunate After the death of Edward,
S f * fire
s H G [ 322 ] S H O
Shore flie attached herfelf to the lord Haftings j and v,>hen
Richard III. cut off that nobleman as an obftacle to
-I- -his ambitious fchemes, Jane Shore was arrefted as an
accomplice, on the ridiculous accuiation of witchcraft.
This, however, terminated only in a public penance j
excepting that Richard rifled her of all her little pro¬
perty : but whatever feverity might have been exercifed
towards her, it appears that fhe was alive, though fuf-
ffciently wretched, under the reign of Henry VIII,
when Sir Thomas More faw her poor, old, and fhrivel-
led, without the leaft trace of her former beauty. Mr
Rowe, in his tragedy of Jane Shore, has adopted the
popular Rory related in the old hiftorical ballad, of her
perifhing by hunger in a ditch where Shoreditch now
Rands. But Stow affures us that Rreet was fo named
before her time.
SHORT. See Schorl, Mineralogy Index.
SHORLING and Morling, are words to diffin-
guifh fells of Rieep ; Jbor/ing being the fells after the
fleeces are fhorn off the ftteep’s back ; and mor/ing, the
fells Read off after they die or are killed. In fome
parts of England they underftand by a Jhorling, a ffieep
whofe face is flrorn off) and by a morling, a Rieep that
dies.
SHORT, James, an eminent optician, was born in
Edinburgh on the 10th of June, O. S. in the year 1710.
At ten years of age, having loll his father and mother,
and being left in a ftate of indigence, he was received
into Heriot’s Hofpital, (fee EDINBURGH, Public Build¬
ings, N° 16.), where he foon difplayed his mechanical
genius in conftrufting, for himfelf, little chefls, book-
cafes, and other conveniences, with Rich tools as fell in
his way. At the age of twelve he was removed from
the Hofpital to the High School, where he fhowed a
confiderable taRe for claffical literature, and generally
kept at the head of his forms. In the year 1726 he
was entered into the univerfity, where he paffed through
the ufual courfe of education, and took his mafler’s de¬
gree with great applaufe.
By his friends he w^as intended for the church j but
, after attending a courfe of theological le&ures, his mind
revolted from a profeflion which he thought little Rat¬
ed to his talents j and he devoted his whole time to ma¬
thematical and mechanical purfuits. He had been for¬
tunate enough to have the celebrated M‘Laurin for his
preceptor j who having foon difeovered the bent of his
genius, and made a proper eftimate of the extent of his
capacity, encouraged him to profecute thofe Rudies in
which nature had qualified him to make the greateft fi¬
gure. Under the eye of that eminent mafier, he began
in 173210 conftruft Gregorian telefcopes j and, as the
profeffor obferved in a letter to Dr Jurin, “ by taking
care of the figure of his fpecula, he was enabled to give
them larger apertures, and to carry them to greater
perfe&ion, than had ever been done before him.” (See
Optics, N° 89.).
In the year 1736 Mr Short was called to London,
at the defire of Queen Caroline, to give inflru£Hons in
mathematics to \Villiam duke of Cumberland ; and im¬
mediately on his appointment to that very honourable
office he was elefted a fellow of the royal fociety, and
patronized by the earls of Morton and Macclesfield.
In the year 1739 he accompanied the former of thofe
noble lords to the Orkney ifles, where he was employed
in adjufting the geography of that part of Scotland: and
happy it was for him that he was fo employed, as he Short
might other wife have been involved in a feuffie which !i
took place between the retainers of Sir James Stewart ,Shortfor(?>
of Barra and the attendants of the earl, in which fome
of the latter were dangeroufly wounded.
Mr Short having returned to London, and finally
efifbliflied hhnfelf there in the line of his profeffion, was
in 1742 employed by Lord Thomas Spencer to make
for him a reflector of twelve feet focus, for which he
received 600 guineas. He made feveral other telefcopes
of the fame focal diRance with greater improvements
and higher magnifiers j and in 1752 finiflied one for the
kmg of Spain, for which, with its whole apparatus, he
received r 200I. This was the noblefi inflrument of the
kind that had then been conRru&ed, and perhaps it has
never yet been furpaffed except by the aftoniftiing re¬
flectors of Herfchel. See Telescope.
Mr Short ufed to vifit the place of his nativity once
every two or three years during his refidence in Lon¬
don, and in 1766 he vifited it for the laft time. On
the 15th of June 1768 he died, after a very fhort ill-
nefs, at Newington Butts, near London, of a mortifica¬
tion in his bowels, and was buried on the 2 2d of the
fame month, having completed, within a few days, his
fifty-eighth year. He left a fortune of about 20,000k
of which 15,oool. was bequeathed to two nephews, and
the refl in legacies to his friends. In gratitude for the
Ready patronage of the earl of Morton, he left to his
daughter the lady Mary Douglas, afterwards countefs of
Aboyne, xoool. and the reverfion of his fortune, fhould
his nephews die without iffue ; but this reverfionary le¬
gacy the lady, at the defire of her father, generoufly re-
linquiffied by a deed in favour of Mr Short’s brother
Mr Thomas Short and his children. Mr Short’s emi¬
nence as an artift is univerfally known, and we have of¬
ten heard him fpoken of by thofe who were acquainted
with him from his youth, as a man of virtue and of very
amiable manners.
SlIORT-Hand Writing. See STENOGRAPHY.
SHORT-Jointed, in the Manege. A horfe is faid to be
fhort-jointed that has a flrort paflern 5 when this joint,
or the paflern is too ftiort, the horfe is fubjeCl to have
his fore-legs from the knee to the cornet all in a ftraight
line. Commonly your fhort-jointed horfes do not ma¬
nege fo well as the long-jointed •, but out of the manege
the fliort-jointed are the befl for travel or fatigue.
SHORT-SiglitedneJs, a certain defedl in vifion, by which
objects cannot be diftinCtly feen unlefs they are very-
near the eye. See Optics, N° 142.
SHORTFORD, q. d. fore-clofe, an ancient cuftom
in the city cf Exeter, when the lord of the fee cannot
be anfwered rent due to him out of his tenement, and
no diflrefs can be levied for the fame. The lord is then
to come to the tenement, and there take a Rone, or
fome other dead thing off the tenement, and bring it
before the mayor and bailiff, and thus he muff do feven
quarter days fucceflively ; and if on the feventh quarter-
day the lord is not fatisfied of his rent and arrears, then
the tenement fliall be adjudged to the lord to hold the
fame a year and a day 5 and forthwith proclamation is
to be made in the court, that if any man claims any
title to the faid tenement, he muff appear within the
year and day next following, and fatisfy the lord of the
faid rent and arrears : but if no appearance be made,
and the rent not paid, the lord comes again to the
court,
S H O
[
Shot, court, and prays that, according to the cuilom,
—v 1 faid tenement be adjudged to him in his demefne as
of fee, which is done accordingly, fo that the lord hath
from thenceforth the faid Itf.iement, with the appurte¬
nances to him and his heirs.
SHOT, a denomination given to all forts of balls for
fire-arms : thofe for cannon being of iron, and thofe for
guns, piftols, &c. of lead. See Shooting.
Cafe Shot formerly confided of all kinds of old iron,
nails, mufket-balls, ftones, &c. ufed as above.
Shot of a Cable, on (hip-board, is the fplicing of two
cables together, that a (hip may ride fafe in deep waters
and in great roads; for a (hip will ride eafier by one (hot
of a cable, than by three (hort cables out ahead.
Grape-SHOT. See GRAPE-Shot.
Patent-milled SHOT is thus made : Sheets of lead,
whofe thicknefs correfponds with the fize of the lliot
required, are cut into fmall pieces, or cubes, of the
form of a die. A great quantity of thefe little cubes
are put into a large hollow iron cylinder, which is mount¬
ed horizontally and turned by a winch ; when by their
fr’uflion againft one another and againft the fides of the
cylinder, they are rendered perfedly round and very
fmooth. The other patent fiiot is call in moulds, in the
fame way as bullets are.
Shot Flaggon, a fort of fiaggon fomewhat bigger thart
ordinary, which in fome counties, particularly Derby-
fiiire, it is the cuftom for the hoft to ferve his guefts in,
after they have drank above a {hilling.
Small Shot, or that ufed for fowling, {hould be well
lized, and of a moderate bignefs : for {hould it be too
great, then it flks thin, and fcatters too much ; or if
too fmall, then it hath not weight and ftrength to pe¬
netrate far, and the bird is apt. to fly away with it. In
order, therefore, to have it fuitable to the occafion, it
not being always to be had in every place fit for the pur-
pofe, we (hall fet down the true method of making all
forts and fizes under the name of mould-Jhot. Its prin¬
cipal good properties are to be round and folid.
Take any quantity of lead you think fit, and melt it
down in an iron vefiel j and as it melts keep it ftirring
with an iron ladle, Ikimming off all impurities whatfo-
ever that may arife at the top : when it begins to look
of a greenifh colour, ftrew on it as much aunpigmentum
Or yellow orpiment, finely powdered, as will lie on a
{hilling, to every 12 or 14 pound of lead j then ftirring
them together, the orpiment will flame.
The ladle {hould have a notch on one fide of the
brim, for more eafily pouring out the lead *, the ladle
mufi remain in the melted lead, that its heat may be the
fame with that of the lead, to prevent inconveniences
which otherwife might happen by its being either too
hot or too cold : then, to try your lead, drop a little of
it into water, and if the drops prove round, then the
lead is of » proper heat; if otherwife, and the {hot have
tails, then add more orpiment to increafe the heat, till
it be found fufficient.
Then take a plate of copper, about the bignefs of a
trencher, which mull be made with a hollownefs in the
middle, about three inches compafs, within which mult
be bored about 40 holes according to the fize of the
ihot which you intend to caft: the hollow bottom {hould
be thin; but the thicker the brim, the better it will re¬
tain the heat. Place this plate on a frame of iron, over
a tub or veffel of water, about four inches from the wa-
323 ] S H 0
the ter, and fpread burning coals on the plate, to keep the
lead melted upon it: then take fome lead and pour it
gently on the coals on the plate, and it will make its
way through the holes into the water, and form itfelt
into {hot ; do this till all your lead be run through
the holes of the plate, taking care, by keeping your
coals alive, that the lead do not cool, and fo flop up tire
hbles.
While you are calling in this manner, another perfon
with another ladle may catch fome of the {hot, placing
the ladle four or five inches underneath the plate in the
water, by which means you will fee if they are defec¬
tive, and reftify them.
Your chief care is to keep the lead in a juft degree
of heat, that it be not fo cold as to ftop up the holes
in your plate, nor fo hot as to caufe the {hot to crack :
to remedy the heat, you muft refrain working till it is
of a proper coolnefs j and to remedy the coolnefs of your
lead and plate, you muft blow your fire ; obferving, that
the cooler your lead is, the larger will be your {hot j as
the hotter it is, the fmallcr they will be.
After you have done calling, take them out of the
water, and dry them over the fire with a gentle heat,
ftirring them continually that they do not melt} when
dry, you are to feparate the great fhot from the fmall,
by the help of a fieve made for that purpofe, according
to their feveral fizes. But thofe who would have very
large {hot, make the lead trickle with a flick out of the
ladle into the water, without the plate.
If it ftop on the plate, and yet the plate be not too
cool, give but the plate a little knock, and it will run
again j care muft be had that none of your implements
be greafy, oily, or the like \ and when the fhot, being
feparated, are found too large or too fmall for your pur¬
pofe, or otherwife imperfect, they will ferve again at the
next operation.
The fizes of common {hot for fowling are from N° I
to 6, and fmaller, which is called muftard feed, or duft
fhot •, but N° 5 is fmall enough for any {hooting what-
foever. The N° 1 may be ufed for wild geefe •, the
N° 2 for ducks, widgeons, and other water fowl * the
N° 3 for pheafants, partridges after the firft month,
and all the fen-fowl ; the N° 4 for partridges, wood¬
cocks, &c. 5 and the N° 5 for fnipes and all the fmaller
birds.
Tin-Cafe SHOT, in artillery, is formed by putting a
great quantity of fmall iron {hot into a cylindrical tin-,
box called a cannifter, that juft fits the bore of the gun.
Leaden bullets are fometimes ufed in the fame manner •,
and it muft be obferved, that whatever number or fizes
of the (hots are ufed, they muft weigh with their cafes
nearlv as much as the fhot of the piece.
SHOVEL, Sir Cloudesly, was born about the year
1650 of parents rather in the lower rank of life. He
was put apprentice to a ftioemaker j but difliking this
profeflion, he abandoned it a few years after, and went
to fea. He was at firft a cabin boy with Sir Chrifto-
pher Mynns, but applying to the ftudy of navigation
with indefatigable induftry, his fkill as a feaman foon
raifed him above that flation.
The corfairs of Tripoli having committed great out¬
rages on the Englifh in the Mediterranean, Sir John
Narborough was fent in 1674 to reduce them to rea-
fon. As he had received orders to try the effefts of
negociation before he proceeded to hoftilities, he fent Mr
S f 2 Shovel,
Shot,
Sh >vc!.
S H O , [ 324 1 S II R
Sli&vel Shovel, who was at that time a lieutenant in his fleet,
s, ^Lt to demand fatisfaftion. The Dey treated him with
‘ ' . a great deal of difrefpeft, and fent him back without
an anfwer. Sir John dilpatched him a fecond time,
with orders to remark particularly the fituation of things
on fliore. The behaviour of the Dey was worfe than
ever. Upon Mr Shovel’s return, he informed Sir John
that it would be poflible, notwithftanding their fortifl-
cations, to burn all the {hips in the harbour. The boats
were accordingly manned, and the command of them
given to Lieut. Shovel, who feized the guardfhip, and
burnt four others, without lofing a man. This aftion
fo terrified the Tripolins, that they fued for peace.—
•Sir John Narborough gave fo favourable an account of
this exploit, that Mr Shovel w’as foon after made captain
of the Sapphire, a fifth rate drip. •
In the battle of Bantry-Bay, after the revolution, he
commanded the Edgar, and, for his gallant behaviour
in that adlion, was foon after knighted by King William.
Next year he was employed in tranfporting an army in¬
to Ireland ; a fervice wdiicb he performed with fo much
diligence and dexterity, that the king raifed him to
the rank of rear-admiral of the blue, and delivered his
commiflion with his own hands. Soon alter he wTas
made rear-admiral of the red, and (hared the glory of
the victory at La Hogue. In 1694, he bombarded
Dunkirk. In 1703, he commanded the grand fleet in
the Mediterranean, and did every thing in his power
to aflift the Protefiants who were in arms in the Ce-
vennes.
Soon after the battle off Malaga, he was prefented
by Prince George to Queen Anne, who received him
gracioufly, and next year employed him as commander
in chief.
In 1705 he commanded the fleet, together with the
earls of Peterborough and Monmouth, which wTas fent
into the Mediterranean $ and it was owing to him chief¬
ly that Barcelona w^as taken. After an unfuccefsful
attempt upon Toulon, he failed for Gibraltar, and from
thence homeward with a part of the fleet. On the 22d
of October, at night, his (hip, with three others, was
call away on the rocks of Scilly. All on board perifh-
ed. His body was found by feme fiihermen on the
ifland of Scilly, who ftripped it of a valuable ring, and
afterwards buried it. Mr Paxton, the purfer of the
Arundel, hearing of this, found out the fellows, and
obliged them to difeover where they had buried the
body. He carried it on board his own drip to Portf-
meuth, from whence it was conveyed to London, and in¬
terred with great folemnity in Weftminfter Abbey. A
monument was aftenvards erefled to his memory by the
dire&ion of the ‘queen. He married the widow of his
patron, Sir John Narborough, by whom he left tvro
daughters, co-heireffes.
SHOVELER, a fpecies of Anas. See Anas, Or¬
nithology Index.
SHOULDER-blade, a bone of the fhoulder, of a
triangular figure, covering the hind part of the ribs,
called by anatomiffs the fcapula and omoplata. See Ana¬
tomy.
SHOUT, CLAMOUR, in antiquity, wTas frequently
ufed on ecclefiaftical, civil, and military cccafions, as a
fign of approbation, and lometimes of indignation.—
Thus as Cicero, in an affembly of the people, wras ex-
pofing the anogance of L. Antony, who had had the
impudence to caufe himfelf to be inferibed the patron Shout
of the Romans, the people on hearing this raifed a (hout . H
to (how their indignation. In the ancient military dif.Shiew’fbury;
cipline, (bouts wrere ufed, 1. Upon occafion of the ge¬
neral’s making a fpeech or harangue to the army from
his tribunal. This they did in token of their approving
what had been propofed. 2. Before an engagement, in
order to encourage and fpirit their own men, and fill
the enemy with dread. This is a praftice of great an¬
tiquity *, befides which, it wants not the authority of
reafon to fupport it; for as mankind are endowed with
two fenfes, hearing and feeing, by which fear is raifed
in the mind, it may be proper to make ufe of the ear
as well as the eye for that purpofe. Shouts were alfo
raifed in the ancient theatre, when wflrat was afted pleaf-
ed the fpedlators. It wTas ufual for thofe prefent at the
burning of the dead to raife a great (hout, and call
the dead perfon by his name before they fet fire to the
pile.
SHOWER, in Meteorology, a cloud condenfed into
Rain.
SHREWMOUSE. See Sorex, Mammalia In-
dex.
SHREWSBURY, the capital of Shropfhire in Eng¬
land. This town, the metropolis of the county, grew
up out of the ruins of Uriconium, anciently a city, now
a village called Wroxeter, about four miles from it. The
Saxons called it Scrobbes Berig, from the flmrbs that
grew about it ; and from thence the prefent name of
Shrewjbury is fuppofed to have been formed. It is
pleafantly fituated upon a hill near the Severn, over
which there are two handfome bridges. It was a place
of note in the Saxon times j after which it was granted
by William the Conqueror, together with the title of
earl and mod of the county, to Roger de Montgomery,
who built a caflle upon the north fide of it, where the
Severn, that encompaffes it on all other fides, leaves an
opening. His fon Robert built alfo a wall acrofs this
neck of land, when he revolted from Henry I. We
learn from doomfday-book, that at that time, when a
widow of this town married, (lie paid 20 (hillings to the
king, and a virgin 10. The above-mentioned Roger
founded alfo, and endowed here, a Benediftine mona-
ftery and a collegiate church. When old age came up¬
on him, he quitted the world, and fpent the reft of his
days as a monk in the abbey, and when he died was in¬
terred in its church. From the hiftory of this church
and monaftery, it appears that ecclefiaftical benefices
about that time wTere hereditary. The abbey became
fo rich afterwards, that the abbot was mitred, and fat in
parliament. Befides this abbey, in after times there w'ere
three others, viz. a Francifcan, Dominican, and Augu-
ftin *, and likewife twro collegiate churches, one dedi¬
cated to St Chad and the other to St Mary. In the
conteft between the emprefs Maud and Stephen, this
town and its governor William Fitz-Allan fided with
the emprefs. In Henry III.’s time, a part of it was
burnt down by the Welch j and in Richard II.’s reign
a parliament was held in it. At a place called Battle¬
field, near this town, Henry Percy the younger, furnam-
ed Hotfipur, was killed in an engagement with Henry
IV. againft whom he had rebelled. The king after¬
wards built a chapel upon the fpot, and endowed it for
the fupport of two priefts to pray for the fouls of the
ilain. Two of Edward IV.’s fons were born here-,
namely,
S H R [ 325 ] S H B
Shrewsbury namely, Richard, duke of York, wnoirt Perkin War-
!! beck afterwards perfonated, and who was murdered in
Shropflure. t|ie 'power . an(l George Plantagenet, who died before
V his brothers. Here find broke out the fweating-fick-
nefs, which carried off great numbers fo fuddenly, that
thofe who were feized with it either died or recovered
in the fpace of 24 hours. In the beginning of the civil
wars, King Charles I. came hither, and formed an army,
with which he marched towards London } but wras met
by the parliament’s forces at Edgehill. He continued
here from the 20th of September to the 12th of Octo¬
ber, during which time he wras joined by Prince Rupert,
and many of the gentry and nobility of thefe parts.
This town anciently gave title of earl to the Montgo¬
meries, and afterwards to the Talbots, by w’hom it is
flill retained. Here is a free grammar-fehool, with three
mailers, and feveral ufhers, well endowed by Edward
VI. and Queen Elizabeth, and not inferior to many
colleges in the univerfities. It has a good library and
chapel, and there are feveral fcholarlhips appropriated
to it in the univerfity of Cambridge. Here are alfo fe¬
veral hofpitals, alms-houfes, and charity-fchools. This
town is one of the moll flourilhing in England, having
two great weekly markets for corn, cattle, and provi-
fions; and another for Welch cottons and flannels, of
which great quantities are fold. A great trade is car¬
ried on with the Welch, who bring their commodities
hither, as to the common mart of both nations. The
town is large and well-built, and the fituation extreme¬
ly pleafant. There is a very beautiful w^alk called the
quarry, between the town walls and the Severn, delight¬
fully lhaded with row's of lime-trees, fo that it is not in¬
ferior to the Mall in St James’s Park. The town is
alfo noted for its gallantry and politenefs, being full of
gentry, for whom there are always balls and aflemblies
once a-week all the year round.—Here is a fine houfe
and gardens, which belonged to the earl of Bradford ;
and in the neighbourhood, at Wroxeter, the Roman
highway, called Watllng-ftreet, may be feen for feveral
miles, where Roman coins are frequently found. In
Shrewlhury are 1 2 incorporated trading companies •, and
the corporation has a power to try even capital caufes
of itfelf, except high treafon. It is laid that thigh-bones
of dead men have been found here a yard long, and
teeth three inches round and three long.
SHRIKE. See Lanius, Ornithology Index.
SHRIMP. See Cancer, Entomology Index.
SHRINE, in Eccleftq/lical Hi/iory, a cafe or box to
hold the relics of fome faint.
SHROPSHIRE, a county of England, bounded
on the fouth by Worcefterlhire, Herefordlhire, and
, Radnorfhire ; on the north, by Chefhire; on the eaft,
by Staffordfliire •, on the weft, by Montgomeryfhire and
Denbighflure, in Wales. Its length is between 49 and
50 miles, its breadth about 38, and its circumference
about 210. It is an inland county, containing 890,000
acres, 167,639 inhabitants, and 15 hundreds, in which
are 170 parithes, and 15 market towns. It makes a
part of three biftioprics, viz. Hereford, Coventry and
Litchfield, and St Afaph. Some part of it lies on the
north, and fome on the fouth fide of the Severn. Be-
fides the Severn, it is alfo watered by the Tetvd or Te-
fidiauc, as it is called in Welch, which flow’s from the
mountains of Radnorlhire \ and by the Tern, which has
its rife and name from one of thofe pools called tearnes,
in Staffordthire. All thefe abound with filh, efpecially Sluopfhirs
trouts, pikes, lampreys, graylings, carp, and eels. The
air, efpecially upon the hills, wdth which the county . ^ a
abounds, is very wholefome. There is as great a diver-
fity of foil as in moft other counties. On the hills,
where it is ptior, is very good pafture for ftreep j and in
the low grounds, where it is very rich, along the Severn
in particular, there is plenty of grafs for bay and black
cattle, with all forts of corn. This county is abundant¬
ly provided with fuel, having in it many extenfive
mines of coal; it has alfo mines of lead and iron. Over
moft of the coal-pits in this county lies a ftratum ce
layer of blackith porous rock, of which, by grinding
and boiling, they make pitch and tar, which are rather
better than the common fort for caulking fhips, as they
do not crack, but always continue dole and fmooth.
Quarries of lime-ftone and iron-ftone are common in the
county, and the foil in many places is a reddilh clay.
The abundance of coal and iron-ftone in this county has
given rife to numerous manufaftories.
As it lies upon the borders of Wales-, it was ancient¬
ly full of caftles and w'alled towns. On the fide next
that country there was an almoft continued line of
caftles, to guard the county againft the inroads and de¬
predations of the Welch. The borders here, as thofe
between England and Scotland, wTere called marches,
and there w'ere certain noblemen entitled barones mar~
chicc, marchiones de marchia Walhce, “ lords of the
marches, or marquifles of the marches of Wales,” who
wTere veiled wdth a fort of palatine jurifdiftion, held
courts of juftice to determine controverfies, and enjoyed
many privileges and immunities, the better to enable
and encourage them to protefl the county againft the
incurfions of the Welch, and to maintain order amongft:
the borderers •, but they often abufed their power, and
were the gveateft of tyrants.
As to the ecclefiaftical government of the county,
the far greater part, namely, all that belongs to the bi-
fhoprics of Hereford, and of Litchfield and Coventry,
is under the jurifdiflion and vifitation of the archdeacon
of Shrew’lhury or Salop, and is divided into feveral
deanries.
The Oxford circuit includes in it this county, which
fends 12 members to parliament, viz. two for the {hire,
and two for each of the following towns, Shrewfbury,
Ludl aw, Wenlock, and Biftiop’s Caftle.
SHROVE-Tuesday, is the Tuefday after Quin-
quagefima Sunday, or the day immediately preceding
the firft of Lent ; being fo called from the Saxon, word
thrive, which fignifies “ to confefs.” Hence Shrove-
Tuefday fignifies Confeflion-Tuefday 5 on which day
all the psople in every parifli throughout England
(during the Romilh times) were obliged to confefs then-
fins, one by one, to their own parilh-priefts, in their own
parifh-churches j and, that this might be done the more
regularly, the great bell in every parilh was rung at ten
o’clock (or perhaps fooner), that it might be heard by
all, and that they might attend, according to the cuf-
tom then in ufe. And though the Romifti religion has
now given way to the Proteftant religion, the cuftom
of ringing the great bell in our ancient parifh-churches,
at leaft in fome of them, ftill remains, and obtains in.
and about London the name of Pancake bell 5 perhaps,
becaufe after the confeftion it was cuftomary for the fe¬
veral perfons to dine on pancakes or fritters. Mod
churches^
S H R [ 3
Shrouds, churches, indeed, have rejefted that cuilom of ringing
the bell on Shrove-Tuefday j but the ufage of dining
on pancakes or fritters, and fuch like provifion, ftill
continues.
SHROUDS (fcrud Sax.), a range of large ropes ex¬
tending from the mart heads to the right and left fide of
the (hip, to fupport the mails, and enable them to carry-
fail, &c.
'1 he fhrouds as well as the fails are denominated from
the malls to which they belong. Thus they are the
main, fore, and mizen Ihrouds 5 the main-top-mall, fore-
top-maft, or mizen-top mall Ihrouds j and the main-top¬
gallant, fore-top-gallant, or mizen-top-gallant Ihrouds.
The number of Ihrouds by which a malt is fultained, as
well as the fize of rope of which they are formed, is al¬
ways in proportion to the fize of the malt and the weight
of the fail it is intended to carry.
Bowfprit Ihrouds are thofe which fupport the bowfprit.
Bumkin Ihrouds are thofe which fupport the bumkins.
Tuttock Ihrouds are Ihrouds which conned the efforts
of the topmaft (hrouds to the lower Ihrouds. Bentinck
Ihrouds are additional Ihrouds to fupport the malts in
heavy gales. Preventer Ihrouds are fimilar to bentinck
Ihrouds, and are uftd in bad weather to eafe the lower
rigging. See Mast and Sail.
SHRUB,a little, low, dwarf tree, or a woody
vegetable, of a lize lefs than a tree j and which, inllead
of one fingle Hem, frequently from the fame root puts
forth feveral fets or Items. See Plant and Tree. Such
are privet, phillyrea, holly, box, honey-fuckle, &c.
Shrubs and trees put forth in autumn a kind of buttons,
-or gems, in the axis of the leaves j thefe buttons are as
fo many little ova, which, coming to expand by the
xvarmth of the following fpring, open into leaves and
flowers. By this, together with the height, forne diitin-
guilh Ihrubs from fuffrutices, or under Ihrubs, which are
low bulhes, that do not put forth any of thefe buttons,
-as fage, thyme, &c.
The two hardiell Ihrubs we are poffeffed of are the
ivy and box ; thefe Hand the feverity of our lharpelt
winters unhurt, while other Ihrubs perifli, and trees
have their folid bodies fplit and torn to pieces. In the
hard winter of the year 1683, thefe two ffirubs fuffered
no injury any where; though the yews and hollies,
which are generally fuppofed very hardy, rvere that
winter in fome places killed, and in others llrippcd of
their leaves, and damaged in their bark. Furze-bufhes
were found to be fomewhat hardier than thefe, but they
Sometimes perifhed, at leaft down to the root. The
broom feemed to occupy the next ftep of hardinefs be¬
yond thefe. This lived where the others died, and
where even this died, the juniper Ihrubs w'ere fometimes
found unhurt. This lall is the only Ihrub that ap¬
proaches to the hardinefs of the box and ivy, but even
it does not quite come up to them \ for while they fuffer
nothing in whatever manner they are expofed, the ju¬
niper, though it bears cold well under the fhelter of
other trees, yet cannot bear the viciffitudes of heat and
cold ; infomuch that fome juniper fhrubs were found half
dead and half vigorous •, that fide which faced the
mid-day fun having perilhed by the fucceffive thawings
and freezings of its fap •, while that which w'as not ex¬
pofed to the viciflhudes of heat had born the cold per-
feftly well. Such (hrubs as are not hardy enough to de-
2
6 ] S I A
fy the winter, but appear half dead in the fpring, may Sbmb
often be recovered by Mr Evelyn’s method of beating .!!
their branches with a (lender hazel-wand, to ftrike off S‘^m' f
the withered leaves and buds, and give a free paffage to
the air to the internal parts. Where this fails, the me¬
thod is to cut them down to the quick, and if no part of
the trunk appears in a growing condition, they mud be
taken off down to the level of the ground. Philofophi-
cal Tranfadlions, N° 165.
SHUTTLE, in the manufadlures, an inftrument ufed
by the weavers, which guidesr the thread it contains,
either of woollen, filk, flax, or other matter, fo as to make
it form the woofs of Huffs, cloths, linens, ribbands, &c.
by throwing the (huttle alternately from left to right,
and from right to left, acrofs between the threads of the
warp, which are ftretched out lengthwife on the loom.
In the middle of the (buttle is a kind of cavity, called
the eye or chamber of the (buttle ; wherein is inclofed
the fpoul, which is a part of the thread deftined for the
woof; and this is wound on a little tube of paper, rufli^
or other matter.
The ribband-weaver’s (buttle is very different from
that of mod other weavers, though it ferves for the
fame purpofe : it is of box, fix or feven inches long,
one broad, and as much deep; (hod with iron at both
ends, which terminate in points, and are a little crooked,
the one towards the right, and the other towards the
left, reprefenting the figure of an c/2 horizontally placed.
See Weaving.
SIALOGOGUES, medicines which promote the (a-
livary difcharge.
SIAM Proper, by fome called Upper, (to diftinguifli Boundaries
it from the Lower Siam, under which are often inclu- and extent,
tied Laos, Cambodia, and Malacca), is bounded on the
north by the kingdoms of Pegu and Laos; on the ea:l
by Cambodia and Cochin-China ; on the fouth by Ma¬
lacca and the bay of Siam ; and on the weft by the
ocean. But as the opinions of geographers are extreme¬
ly various concerning the fituation and extent of mod of
the inland countries of Afia and Africa, neither the ex¬
tent nor boundaries of Siam are yet accurately known.
By fome it is fuppofed to extend 550 miles in length,
and 250 miles in breadth; in fome places it is not
above 50 miles broad.
The winds blow' here from the fouth upon the coaftwejutoi-
of Siam, in March, April, and May ; in April the rains
begin, in May and June they fall almoft without cea-
fing. In July, Auguft, and September, the winds blow
from the weft, and the rains continuing, the rivers over¬
flow their banks nine or ten miles on each fide, and ff>r
more than 150 miles up the dream, At this time,
and more particularly in July, the tides are fo flrong
as to come up the river Menan as far as the city of
Siam, which is fituated 60 miles from its mouth; and
(ometimes as far as Louvo, which is 30 miles higher.
The winds blow from the weft and north in Odlober,
when the rain ceafes. In November and December the
winds blow dry from the north, and the waters being
in a few days reduced to their ancient channels, the
tides become fo infenfible, that the water is frefti at the
mouth of the river. At Slam there is never more than
one flood and one ebb in the fpace of 24 hours. In
January the wind blows from the call, and in February
from the eaft and fouth. When the wind is at eaft,
the
S I A C 327 1
Siam, the current fets to the weft j and, on the contrary,
v—v ^ when the wind is at weft, the currents run to the eaft-
ward. . . a
As this country is titivated near the tropic, it muit
neceffarily be very hot; but yet, as in other places
nearly of the fame latitude, when the fun is vertical and
fhines with a moft intenfe heat, the inhabitants are fo
fkreened by the clouds, and the air is fo refreftied by a
deluge of rain that overflows the plains which the people
chiefly inhabit, that the heat is very fupportable. 1 he
cool eft wind blows in December and January.
Vegetable The vegetable produce of this country is chiefly rice
p.oduc- and wheat, befides tropical and a few European fruits,
tiuns* The Siamefe prepare the land for tillage as foon as tne
earth is fuflaciently moiftened by the floods, ft hey plant
their rice before the waters rife to any conftderable
height, and, as they rife flowly, the rice keeps pace
with them, and the ear is always above the water. They
reap their corn when the water retires, and fometimes
go in boats to cut it while the waters are upon the
ground. They alfo fow rice in feveral parts of the king¬
dom that are not overflowed, and this is thought better
tafted, and will keep longer than the other j but they
are forced to fupply thefe fields conftantly with water,
while the rice is growing, from bafins and ponds that lie
about them.
They have no European fruits except oranges, le¬
mons, citrons, and pomegranates. They have bananas,
Indian figs, jaques, durions, mangoes, mangoftans, ta¬
marinds, ananas, and cocoa nuts} they have alfo abun¬
dance of pepper and fugav-canes. Ihe mountains aie
covered with trees which make good mafts. 1 he ve¬
getable of greateft ufe in the country is the bamboo,
which grows chiefly m marftiy foils, and is often found
of a prodigious fize. Cotton trees are found in great
numbers 5 and others that yield ca/>oc, a very fine cot¬
ton wool, but fo ftiort as to be unfit for fpinning,
though it anfwers very well for ftuffing mattreffes and
pillows.
There is no country where elephants abound more
than in Siam, or where they are held in greater venera¬
tion. They have a few horfes, fjieep, and goats, be¬
fides oxen and buffaloes ; but they have no good ani¬
mal food except the flefh of hogs, their beef and mutton
being of a very indifferent quality.
Defmption The Siamefe are of fmall ftature, but well proportion-
of the inha- ed j their complexions are fwarthy : the faces of both
tvitants. men and women are broad, and their foreheads, fud-
denly contra£!ing, terminate in a point, as well as their
chins. They have fmall black eyes, hollow jaws, large
mouths, and thick pale lips. Their teeth are dyed
black, their nofes are ftiort and round at the end, and
they have large ears, which they think very beautiful.
Their hair is thick and lank, and both fexes cut it fo
ftiort that it reaches no lower than their ears 5 the wo¬
men make it ftand up on their foreheads j and the men
6 {have their beards.
Dxefs. People of diftin&ion wear a piece of calico tied about
their loins, that reaches down to their lenees.— The men
bring up this cloth between their legs, and tuck it into
their girdles, which gives it the appearance of a pair of
breeches. They have alfo a muffin ftiirt without a col¬
lar, with wide fleeves, no wriftbands, and the bofom 0-
pen. In winter they wear a piece of fluff or painted
S I A
. 4
Anitniils.
linen over their (boulders, like a mantle, and wind it a-, ,
bout their arms.
The king of Siam is diftinguhhed by -wearing a veft
of brocaded fatin, with ftraight fteeves that reach down
to the wrift, under fuch a Hurt as we have juft defcri-
bed, and it is unlawful for any fubjeft to wear this
drefs unlefs he receives it from the king. They wear
flippers with piked toes turned up, but no ftockings.
The king fometimes prefents a military veft to the ge¬
nerals ; this is buttoned before, and reaches to the
knees •, but the fleeves are wide, and come no lower
than the elbow's. All the retinue of the king, either in
war or in hunting, are clothed in red. Ehe king weaiS
a cap in the form of a fugar-loaf, encompafied by a co¬
ronet or circle of precious (tones, and thofe of his officers
have a circle of gold, filver, or of vermilion gilt, to di-
ftlnguifh their quality, and thefe caps are fattened with a
ft ay under the chin •, they are only worn when they are
in the king’s prefence, or when they prefide in courts of
juftice, and on other extraordinary occafions. They
have alfo hats for travelling ^ but, in general, few peo¬
ple cover their heads notwithftanding Lne fcorching heat
of the fun.
The women alfo wrap a cloth about their fmiddle,
which hangs down to the calf of their legs. They co¬
ver their breads with another cloth, the ends of which
hang over their (boulders. But they have, no garment
correfponding to a (liift, nor any covering for theu
heads but their hair. The common people are al-
moft naked, and wear neither (hoes nor flippers. The
women wear as many rings on the three laft fingers of
each hand as they can keep on, and bracelets upon their
wrifts and ancles, with pendants in their ears (haped like
a pear. _ _ 7
For an inferior to ftand before a fuperior is deemed Manners
infolent; and therefore (laves and people of inferior and cu-
rank fit upon their heels, with their heads little in-ll;0n:is-*
dined, and their joined hands lifted up to their fore¬
heads. In paffing by a fuperior they bend their bodies,
joining their hands, and lilting them toward their heads
in proportion to the refpeft they would (how\ "When
an inferior pays a vifit, he enters the room (looping,
proftrates himfelf, and then remains upon his knees,
fitting upon his heels without fpeaking a word till he
is addreffed by the perfon whom he vifits j for he that
is of the higheft quality muft always (peak firft. If a
perfon of rank vifits an inferior, he walks upright, and
the mafter of the houfe receives him at the door, and
waits on him fo far when he goes away, but never far¬
ther.
The higheft part of the houfe is efteemed the moft
honourable, and no perfon cares to lodge under ano¬
ther’s feet. The SiameE indeed have but one dory,
but the rooms rife gradually, and the innermoft, which
are the higheft, are ahvays the moft honourable. When
the Siamefe ambaffador came to the French court,
feme of his retinue were lodged in a floor over the am-
baffador’s head ; but they no fooner knew it, than they
were ftruck with the greateft confternation, and ran
down tearing their hair at the thoughts of being guil¬
ty of what they confidered as fo unpardonable a
crime.
The Siamefe never permit fuch familiarities as are
praftifed by gentlemen in Europe. Eafinefs of accefs,
and
Siam.
S I A [ 328 ]
■and affability to Inferiors, Is In that part of the world another,
• thought a fign of weaknefs, and yet they take no no¬
tice of fome things which would be looked upon as ill
breeding among us; fuch as belching In company,
which no man endeavours to prevent, or fo much as
holds his hand before his mouth. They have an extra¬
ordinary refpeft for the head, and it is the greateft af¬
front to ftroke or touch that of another perfon ; nay,
their cap muff not be ufed with too much familiarity ;
for w'hen a fervant carries it, it is put on a flick and held
above his head 5 and when the mailer Hands Hill the
flick is fet down, it having a foot to Hand upon. They
alfo Ihow their refpeft by lifting their hands to the
head 5 and therefore, when they receive a letter from
any one for whom they have a great refpeft, they im¬
mediately hold it up to their heads, and fometimes lay
g it upon their heads.
Genius and They are elfeemed an ingenious people, and though
difpofitions. rather indolent than adlive in difpolition, they are not
addicted to the voluptuous vices wdrich often accompa¬
ny a flate of eafe, being remarkably chafte and tempe¬
rate, and even holding drunkennefs in abhorrence.-—
They are, howTever, accounted infolent towards their
inferiors, and equally obfequious to thofe above them j
the latter of which qualities appears to be particularly
inculcated from their earlieft youth. In general, their
behaviour is extremely modell, and they are averfe to
loquacity. Like the Chinefe, they avoid fpeaking in
the firll perfon : and w-hen they addrefs a lady, it is al¬
ways with fome refpeftful epithet, inlinuating perfonal
accomplilhments.
No man in this country learns any particular trade,
but has a general knowdedge of all that are commonly
pra&ifed, and every one vrorks fix months for the king
by rotation ; at which time, if he flrould be found per¬
fectly ignorant of the bufinefs he is fet about, he is
doomed to fuffer the baftinado. The confequence of
this burdenfome fervice is, that no man endeavours
to excel in his bufinefs, left he fhould be obliged to
praCtife it as long as he lives for the benefit of the
crown.
The government of this country is extremely op-
preffive, the king being not only fovereign but proprie¬
tor of all the lands, and chief merchant likewife ; by
which means he monopolizes almoft the whole traffic,
to the great prejudice of his fubjeCts. The crown is
faid to be hereditary, but it is often transferred by re¬
volutions, on account of the exorbitant abufe of powTer
in thofe who exercife the royal office. In his palace,
the king is attended by wmmen, who not only prepare
his food, and wait on him at table, but even perform
the part of valets, and put on all his clothes, except his
cap, which is confidered as tco facred to be touched by
any hand but his own. He ffiowTs himfelf to the people
only twice a-year, when he diflributes his alms to the
talapoins or priefts: and on thofe occafions he always
appears in an elevated fituation, or mounted on the back
of an elephant. When he takes the diverfion of hunt¬
ing, he is as ufual attended by his wmmen on foot, pre¬
ceded by a guard of 200 men, wffio drive all the people
from the roads through which they are to pafs ; and
when the king flops, all his attendants fall upon their
faces on the ground.
All their proceedings in law are committed to wri¬
ting, and none is fuffered to exhibit a charge againft
9
Govern
ment.
V3
Forms of
procefs.
S I A
without giving fecurity to profecute it, and Siam.
anfwer the damages if he does not prove the fat! againft ' 
the perfon accufed. When a perfon intends to profe¬
cute another, he draws up a petition, in which he fets
forth his complaint, and prefents it to the nai, or head
of the band to which he belongs, who tranfmits it to
the governor 5 and if the complaint appears frivolous,
the profecutor, according to the laws of the country,
fhould be puniffied 5 but the magiftrates generally en¬
courage profecutions on account of the perquifites they
bring to their office.
Every thing being prepared for hearing, the parties
are feveral days called into court, and perfuaded to
agree 5 but this appears to be only a matter of form.
At length the governor appoints a day for all parties
to attend ; and being come into court, the clerk reads
the procefs and opinion of his affociates, and then the
governor examines upon what reafons their opinions are
founded ; which being explained to him, he proceeds to
pafs judgement.
When fufficient proofs are wanting, they have re-,x’r;ai or-
courfe to an ordeal trial, like that of our Saxon ance-deal.
ftors: both the plaintiff and the defendant walk upon
burning coals, and he that efcapes unhurt is adjudged
to be in the right : fometimes the proof is made by put¬
ting their hands in boiling oil ; and in both thefe trials,
by fome peculiar management, one or the other is faid
to remain unhurt. They have alfo a proof by water,
in which he who remains longeft under it is efteemed in¬
nocent. They have another proof, by fwallowing pills,
which their priefls adminifter with fevere imprecations ^
and the party who keeps them in his ftomach without
vomiting is thought to be innocent.
All thefe trials are made in the prefence of the magi¬
ftrates and people 5 and the king himfelf frequently di-
refts them to be performed, when crime comes before
him by way of appeal. Sometimes he orders both the
informer and prifoner to be thrown to the tigers : and
the perfon that efcapes by his not being feized upon by
tbofe hearts, is fufficiently juftified.
They maintain the do&rine of trajifmigration, belie-geijgi013a
ving in a pre-exiftent ftate, and that they lhall pafs into opinions,
other bodies till they are fufficiently purified to be re¬
ceived into paradife. They believe likewife that the
foul is material, but not fubjeft to the touch ; that it
retains the human figure after quitting a body of that
fpecies 5 and that when it appears to perfons with whom
it was acquainted, which they fuppofe it to do, the
wounds of one that has been murdered will then be vi-
fible. They are of opinion that no man will be eter¬
nally puniihed •, that the good, after feveral tranfmigra-
tions, will enjoy perpetual happinefs j but that tbofe
who are not reformed will be doomed to tranfmigration
to all eternity. They believe in the exiftence of a Su¬
preme Being •, but the objects of their adoration are de¬
parted faints, whom they confider as mediators or inter-
ceffors for them j and to the honour of this numerous
tribe both temples and images are erefled.
The men of this country are allowed a plurality ofjv]arriag«j,
women ; but excepting one, who is a wife by contrafl,
the others are only concubines, and their children deem¬
ed incapable of any legal inheritance. Previous to eve¬
ry nuptial contrafl, an aftrologer muft be corifulted,
who calculates the nativity of the parties, and deter¬
mines whether their union is likely to prove fortunate
ox
sib r 3:
Slam ov ot tier wife. When his prognoftication is favourable,
II the lover is permitted to vilit his miltrefs three times, at
^Sibemco. t},e 0[.' which interviews the relations being pre-
fent? the marriage portion is paid, when, without any
religious ceremony periormed, the nuptials are reckon¬
ed complete, and foon after confummated. A few days
after the talapoin viiits the married couple, fprinkles
them with wTater, and repeats a prayer for their pro-
fperity.
Tunerals. The praftice in Siam refpe&ing funerals, is both to
burn and bury the dead. The corpfe being laid upon
the pile, it is fuffered to burn till a confiderable part is
confumed, when the remainder is interred in a burying-
place contiguous to feme temple. The reafon which
they give for not burning it entirely to allies is, that
they fuppofe the deceafed to be happy when part of
his remains efcapes the fire. Inllead of a tombllone,
tjiey ere£t a pyramid over the grave. It was formei !y
the cullom to bury treafure with the corple \ but long¬
er experience evincing, that the facrilegtous lignt in
w7hich, robbing the graves was confidered aid not pre¬
vent the crime, they now7 difeontinue the ancient prac¬
tice, and inllead of treafure bury only painted papers
15 and other trifles.
Rivers. Xhe twTo principal rivers are tire Memtn and the Me-
con, which rife in the mountains of Tartary, and run
to the fouth ; the former palling by the city ot Siam,
falls into the bay of the fame name, in the 13th de¬
gree of north latitude ; and the latter running through
Laos and Cambodia, difeharges itfelf into the Indian
<5 ocean in the pth degree of north latitude.
Defcrip- The capital of the country is Siam, called by the na¬
tion of the t;ves Siyot/ioija, fituated in the 101 ft degree ofeaft longi-
capital. tudej andjn 14th degree of north latitude, being al-
moft encompaffed hy the branches of the river Menan. It
is about 10 miles in circumference within the walls, bst
not a fixth part of the ground is occupied by buildings.
In the vacant fpaces there are near 300 pagodas or
temples, round which are fcattered the convents of the
priefts and their burying-places. The ftreets of the
' city are fpacious, and fome have canals running through
them, over which is a great number of bridges. I ne
houfes Hand on pillars of the bamboo cane, and are
built of the fame materials : the communication between
different families, during the winter feafon, being carried
on as in other tropical countries hy means of boats. I he
grounds belonging tothefeveral tenements are feparated
by a pallifado, within which the cattle are houfed in
barns, ere&ed likewife upon pillars, to preferve them
from the annual inundation.
SIBBALD1 A, a genus of plants belonging to the
clafs of pentandria, and to the order of pentagynia ■,
and in *he natural fvffem arranged under the 35l^or^el‘
Senticofee See Botany Index.
SIBENICO, or SEBENICO, the name of a city and
province of Dalmatia. ’1 he province of Sibenico runs
along the fea for more than 30 n iiesj reaches in iome
places above 20 miles within land, and comprehends
above 70 iflands. The city of Sibenico is fituated near
the mouth of the river Cherea, in the gull of Venice,
3^ miles north of Soalatto, and 2 ij fouth-eaft of Zara.
E. Long. 16® 46', N. Lat. 440 17'. It belongs to the
Venetians. It is defended on one fide by a caffle, which
held out againft repeated attacks of the Turks, and to*
wards the fea by a fort.
VOL. XIX. Part I.
*9 1 S 1 B
SIBERIA, a large country, comprehending the moft Siberia. ^
northerly parts of the Ruffian empire in Alia. It is ^
bounded on the eaft by the eaftern ocean ; on the fouth B0ur,Varies
by Great Tartary \ on the weft by Ruffia j and on the and extent,
north by the Frozen ocean. It is about 2000 miles in
length from eaft to weft, and 750 miles in breadth from
north to fouth. 2
At what time this country was firft inhabited, or Conquered'
by whom it was peopled, we are entirely ignorant
but writings have been found in it when it was difeover- 1 u 1 ' ’
ed, which fhows that it muft have been early known to
a civilized people *. 1 he Ruffians, irom whom we have *Bell s
received our knowledge, knew nothing of it before the Travels.
middle of the 16th century. In the reign of John Bafi-
lowilz I. indeed, an incurfion had been made into Siberia,
and fome Tartar tribes fubdued : but tbefe conquefts wrere
not permanentand we hear cf no further communica¬
tion between Ruffia and Siberia till the time of John
Bafilowitz II. It was opened again at that time by
means of one Anika Strogonoff, a Ruffian merchant,
who had eftabliftied fome lalt-works at a town in the
government of Archangel. lifts man carried on a
trade with the inhabitants of the north-weft parts of
Siberia, who brought every year to the town above-
mentioned large quantities of the fineft furs. I hus
he acquired a very confidcrable fortune in a Ihort time }
when at laft the czar, perceiving the advantages which
would accrue to his fubjefts from having a regular in-
tercourfe with Siberia, determined to enlarge the com¬
munication which was already opened. With this view
he fent into Siberia a body of troops, which croffed the
Yugorian mountains, that form part of the north-eaftern
boundary of Europe. They feem, however, not to nave
palled the Irtiffi, or to have penetrated farther than the
weftern branch of the river Oby. Some iartar tribes
were laid under contribution, and a chief named Yediger
confented to pay an annual tribute of 1000 fables. But
this produced no lafting advantage to Ruffia j for, foon
after, Yediger was defeated and taken prifoner by
Kutchum Khan, a defendant of the great Jenghiz
Khan : and thus the allegiance of this country to Ruf¬
fia was difi’olved.
For fome time we hear of no fiyther attempts made
by the Ruffians on Siberia 3 but in 1577 the founda¬
tion of a permanent conqueft was laid by one \ ermac
Temofeeff, a Coffack of the Don. This man was at
firft the head of a party of banditti who infefted the
Ruffians in the province of Cafan ; but being defeated
by the troops of the czar, he retired wJth 6000 of his
followers into the interior parts of that province. Con¬
tinuing his courfe ftill eaftward, he came to Orel, the
moft eafterly of all the Ruffian fettlements. Here he
took up his winter-quarters : but his reftlefs genius
did not fuffer him to continue for any length of time
in a ftate of ina&ivity 5 and from the intelligence _ he
procured concerning the fituation of the neighbouring
Tartars of Siberia, be turned his arms towards that
quarter. _ 3
Siberia was at that time partly divided among a num-State of
her of feparate princes, and partly inhabited by the vari-
ous tribes of independent Tartars. Of the former Kut- of- t^Ruf.
chum Khan.was the moft powerful fovereign. Plis do-flan con.
minions confifted of that tra£l of country which nowqueft.
forms the fouth-weftern part of the province of Tobolfk ;
and ftretched from the banks of the Irtifh and Oby to
X t thofe
\
SIB f 33° ] ' SIB
thole of the Tobol and Tura. His principal refidence
was at Sibir, a fmall fortrefs upon the river Irtilh, not
far from the prefent town of Tobollk, and of which
fome ruins are Hill to be feen. After a courfe of unre¬
mitted fatigue, and a feries of viftories which almoft ex¬
ceed belief, but of which we have not room to give the
detail, our intrepid adventurer dlfpoffelTed this prince of
his dominions, and feated himfelf on the throne of Sibir.
The number of his followers, however, being greatly re¬
duced, and perceiving he could not depend on the affec¬
tion of his new fubjefts, he had recourfe to the czar of
Mufcovy, and made a tender of his new acquilitions to
that monarch, upon condition of receiving immediate
and effedtual fupport. This propofal was received with
the greatell fatisfaftion by the czar, who granted him a
pardon for all former offences, and lent him the required
fuccours. Yermac, however, being foon after drowned
in an unfuccefsful excurfion, the Ruffians began to lofe Siberia,
their footing in the country. But frelh reinforcements -v—
being feafonably fent, they not only recovered their
ground, but puihed their conquefts far and wide j where-
ever they appeared, the Tartars were either reduced or
exterminated. New towns were built, and colonies were
planted ©n all fides. Before a century had well elapfed,
ail that vaft traft of country now called Siberia, which
ffretches from the confines of Europe to the Eaftern
ocean, and from the Frozen fea to the prefent frontiers
of China, was annexed to the Ruffian dominions. ^
The air of Siberia is, in general, extremely piercing, Climate,
the cold there being more fevere than in any other part
of the Ruffian dominions. The Siberian rivers are
frozen very early, aijid it is late in the fpring before the
ice is thawed (a). If the corn does not ripen in Auguft,
there is little hope of a harveft in this country j and in
the
(a) M. Gmelin, M. Muller, and two other philofophers, fet out in the year 1733 to explore the dreary regions
of Siberia, by deiire of the emprefs Anne of Ruffia. After {pending nine years and a half in obferving every
thing that was remarkable, they returned to Peterfburgh ; and an account of this journey was publiffied by M.
Gmelin. In order to examine how far the froft had penetrated into the ground, M. Gmelin, on the 18th of
June, at a place called Jacutia, ordered the earth to be dug in high ground ; they found mould to the depth of
11 inches, under which they met with loofe fand to twro feet and a half further, after which it grew harder, and
at half a foot deeper fo hard as fcarcely to give way to the tools j fo that the ground Hill remained unthawed at
not lefs than the depth of four feet. He made the fame experiment in a lower fituation 5 the foil was 10 inches
deep, after that a loofe fand for twro feet and ten inches, below which all was frozen and hard. At Jacutia the
inhabitants preferve in cellars feveral forts of berries, which they reckon among their dainties, perfectly good and
frefh the whole year, though thefe cellars are fcarcely a fathom deep. At the fortrefs of Argun, in little more
than 50 degrees of latitude, the inhabitants relate that the earth in many places is never thawed above a yard and
a half, and that the internal cold of the earth will fcarcely permit a well to be dug, of which they bring an inftance
that happened not long before the author’s arrival at that place. They defigned to fink a well near a houfe at
fome diftance from the river Argun, for which purpofe they thawed the earth by degrees, and dug fome fathoms
till they had penetrated a fathom and half below the level of the river, but found no fpring. Hence perhaps we
may venture to affert, that befides the great elevation of the earth in thefe countries, there is another caufe, per¬
haps latent in the earth itfelf, of this extraordinary cold, naturally fuggefted to us by confidering the cavity
of an old filver mine at Argun, which being exhaufted of its ore, now ferves the inhabitants in fummer lime for
a cellar to keep their provifions : this place is fo extremely cold as to preferve fleih meats from putrefaction in the
hotleft fummers, and to fink the mercury in De Lille’s thermometer to 146 and 147. The author travelling from
Nerfchoi towards Argun, to vifit the works of the filver mines in that place, Augult 1735, came to the river Or-
kija, near Solonifchaia, on July the iff, from whence he arrived a little before dark at the village of Seventua, dif-
tant from the river 27 leagues. In this journey he and his fellow travellers for more than four leagues felt it vaftly
cold j foon after they came into a warm air, which continued lome leagues •, after which the cold returned ; and
thus are travellers fubje&ed to perpetual viciffitudes of warmth and cold. But it is oblerved in general, that the
eafiern parts are colder than the weftern, though fituated in the fame latitude ; for as in thofe eaftem regions fome
irafts of land are much colder than the reft, their effefts muft be felt by the neighbouring parts. And this con-
•jefture is favoured by the therrnometrical obfervations made with M. de L’llle’s inftrument in all parts of Siberia,
in which the mercury was deprefied to the 226th degree, even in thofe parts that lie very much towards the foulh,
as in the territory cf Selinga, which faid degree aniwqrs in Fahrenheit’s thermometer to about 55.5 below o, but
the fame thermometer fometimes indicated a much greater cold. At the fort of Kiringa, on Feb. 10. I73^> ^
in the morning, the mercury ftoed at 240, which anfwers nearly to 72 below o in Fahrenheit’s. On the 23d of
the fame month it was a degree lower. At the fame place, December 11. at three in the afternoon, it flood at
254 in D' Lifle’s thermometer, and very near 90 in Fahrenheit’s j on December 29. at four in the afternoon, at
263 , on November 27. at noon, at 270 5 January 9. at 275, which feveral depreffions anfwer in Fahrenheit’s to
99.44, 107.73, and 113.65 ; on January 5. at five in the morning, at 262 5 an hour aftei at 281, but at eight
o’clock it returned to 2$o, and there remained till fix in the afternoon, and then rofe by degrees till an hour before
midnight, when it flood at 202. So that the greateft depreffion of the mercury anfwers in Fahrenheit’s thermo¬
meter to 120.76 degrees below o, which is indeed very furprifing, and what nobody ever imagined before. While
this cold lafted at Jenifea, the fparrows and magpies fell to the ground, ftruck dead, as it were, with the froft, but
revived if they were foon brought into a warm room. The author was told alfo that numbers of wild beafts were
found in the woods dead and fluff with the froft, and feveral travellers had their blood and juices quite frozen in
their veffels. The air itfelf at that time was fo dilmal, that you would think it changed to ice, as ;L was a thick
Jcg, which was not diffipable by anv exhalations, as in the fpri^g and autumn, and the author could fcarcely ftanu
three minutes in the porch of his houfe for the cold.
5
Soil and
produce,
S I S [ 33
Siberia, the province of Jenifeifk it is fometimes covered with
   fnow before the peafants can reap it. To defend the
inhabitants againft this extreme feverity of the climate,
Providence feems more liberally to have dealt out to
them wood for fuel and furs for clothing. As the win¬
ter days in the north parts of Siberia laft but a tew
hours, and the ftorms and flakes of fnow darken the
air fo much, that the inhabitants, even at noon, cannot
fee to do any thing without artificial lights, they fleep
away the greateft part of that feafon.
Thefe fevere winters are rapidly fucceeded by lum-
mers, in which the heat is fo intenfe that the Tungu-
fians, who live in the province of Jakutlk, go almolt
naked. Here is fcarcely any night during that feafon ;
and towards the Frozen ocean the fun appears continual¬
ly above the horizon. The vegetables and fruits of
the earth are here extremely quick in their growth.
The whole traft of land beyond the 6oth degree of
north latitude is a barren wafte ; for the north part of
Siberia yields neither corn nor fruits ; though barley is
known frequently to come to perfeflion in Jakutlk.—
For this reafon, the inhabitants of the northern parts
are obliged to live on fifh and flefh, but the Ruffians are
fupplied with corn from the fouthern parts of Siberia,
where the foil is furprifingly fertile. The countries be¬
yond the lake of Baikal, efpecially towards the eaft, as
far as the river Argun, are remarkably fruitful and plea-
fant ; but fuch is the indolence of the inhabitants, that
feveral fine trails of land, which would make ample
returns to the peaf^nt for cultivating them, lie negleft-
ed. The paftures are excellent in this country, which
abounds in fine horned cattle, horfes, goats, &c. on
which the Tartars chiefly depend for fubfiffence. How¬
ever, there are feveral fteppes, or barren rvaftes, and un¬
improvable trails in thefe parts •, and not a Angle fruit
tree is to be feen. There is great variety of vegetables,
and in feveral places, particularly near Krafnoia Slobo-
da, the ground is in a manner overrun with afparagus
of an extraordinary height and delicious flavour. I he
bulbs of the Turkilh bundes, and other forts of lilies,
are much ufed by the Tartars inftead of bread, ihis
want of fruit and corn is richly compenfated by the
great quantities of wild and tame beafts, and fowls, and
the infinite variety of fine fiflr which the country af¬
fords (b).
In that part of Siberia which lies near the Icy fea,
as rvell as in feveral other places, are woods of pine,
larch, and other trees; befides which, a confiderable
quantity of wood is thrown affiore by the waves of
the Icy fea ; but whence it comes is not yet ascer¬
tained.
Befides the wild fowl with which Siberia abounds,
there is a prodigious number of quadrupeds, fome of
6
Wild
beads.
i ] SIB
which are eatable, and others valuable for their fkins Siberia,
or furs.
The animals moff valued for their {kins are the black
fox, the fable, the hyena, the ermine, the fquirrel, the
beaver, and the lynx. The {kin of a real black fox
is more elleemed than even that of a fable. In the
country near the Frozen ocean are alfo blue and white
foxes. The fineft fables come from Nertfhinlk and Ja-
kutik, the inhabitants of which places catch them in
the mountains of Stannowoi Krebet. The tributary
nations were formerly obliged to pay their taxes in the
{kins of foxes and fables only. But now the feins of
fquirrels, bears, rein-deer, &.c, and fometimes money,
are received by way of tribute ; and this not only from
thofe who live near the Lena, but alfo In the govern¬
ments of Ilinfk, Irkutzk, Selenginfk, and Nertfliinfl;.
When the Tartars firfl: became tributary to Rufiia, they
brought their furs indiferiminately as they caught them,
and among them were often fables of extraordinary
value •, and formerly, if any trader brought with him
an iron kettle, they gave him in exchange for it as
many fables as it would hold. But they are now better
acquainted with their value. They fell their fables to
fmugglers at a very high price, and pay only a ruble in-
Head of a {kin to the revenue officers, who now receive
more ready money than fables, by way of tribute. The
fubje&s plead the fcarcity of furs, and indeed not with¬
out fome appearance of truth. ^
Siberia has ftill other and more valuable treafures than Minerals,
thofe we have yet mentioned. The filver mines of Ar¬
gun are extremely rich ; the filver they produce yields
fome gold, and both of thefe are found among the cop¬
per ore of Koliwan. This country is alfo particularly
rich in copper and iron ore. The former lies even up¬
on the furface of the earth ; and confiderable mines of
it are found in the mountains of Pi£tow, Koliwan, Plo-
{kau, Wolkerefenfk, Kufwi, Alepaik, and feveral others,
and in the government of Krafnoiarik. (c). Ixon is {fill
more plentiful in all thefe places, and very good 5 but
that of Kamenlki is reckoned the beft. Several hun¬
dred thoufand puds of thefe metals are annually ex¬
ported from the frnelting houfes, which belong partly
to the crown, and partly to private perfons. Molt of
them lie in the government of Catharinenburg. The
Tartars alfo extract a great quantity of iron from the
ore. 8
The topazes of Siberia have a fine luftre •, and in open Precious
fandy places, near the river Argun, as well as on theft°nes-
banks of other rivers and lakes, are found fingle fmall
pieces of agate. Here are alfo carnelians and green jaf-
per with red veins. The latter is chiefly met with in
the deferts of Gobifkoi. Q
The famous marienglas, or lapis fpecularis, greatMarien-
T t 2 quantities gl^-
(b) The oak, though frequent in Ruflia, it is faid, is not to be found through this vaft region nearer than the
banks of the Argun and Amur, in the dominions of China. The white poplar, the afpen, the black poplar, the
common fallow, and feveral fpecies of the willow, are very common. The Norway and filver fir form great forefts j
but the former does not grow beyond the 60th degree of north latitude, and the latter not beyond 58 degrees. To
this dreary region of Siberia, Europe is indebted for that excellent fpecies of oats called Avena Sibirica ; and our
gardens are enlivened with the gay and brilliant flowers brought from the fame country.
(c) The copner mines of Koliwan, from which gold and filver are extradled, employ above 40,000 people. The
filver mines of Nertflfinfk, beyond Lake Baikal, employ above 14,000. The whole revenue arifing from thefe
.mines, according to Mr Coxe. is net Itfs than 679,182!. 13s.
S I B
[ 332 1
S I B
Siberia.
Magraets.
Salt lakes
and fprings
it.
Cm'ioficies.
13 .
Mountain
quantmes of wliich are dug up in Siberia, is by fome
called Mufcovy or Ruffian glafs. It is a particular
fpcci^s of transparent done, lying in ftrata like fo many
fheeis of paper. The matrix, or done in which it is
found, is partly a light yellow quartz, or marcaffia, and
partly a brown indurated fluid ; and this done contains
in it all the fpecies of the marienglas. To render the
marienglas fit for ufe, it is fplit with a thin two-edged
knife ; but care is taken that the laminae be not too
thin. It is ufcd for windows and lanterns all over Si¬
beria, and indeed in every part of the Ruffian empire,
and looks very beautiful its ludre and clearnefs fur-
p a ding that of the fined glafs, to which it is particularly
preferable for windows and lanterns of drips, as it will
dand the-explofion of cannon. It is found in the greated
plenty near the river VVitim.
Siberia affords magnets of an extraordinary fize, and
even whole mountains of loaddone. Pit-coal is alio
dug up in the northern parts of this country. The
kamennoe maflo, a yellowidr kind of alum, unctuous and
fmooth to the touch, like tophus, is found in the moun¬
tains of Krafnoiarfk, Ural, Altai Or, Jenifea, Baikal, Bar-
gudk, Lena, and feveral others in Siberia.
In this country are not only a great number of fredi
water lakes, but likewife feveral whofe waters are fait;
and thefe reciprocally change their nature, the fait fome-
times becoming frefh, and the frefh changing into laline.
Some lakes alfo dry up, and others appear where none
were ever leen before. The fait lake of Yamufha, in
the province of ToboHk, is the mod remarkable of all,
for it contains a fait as white as fnow, confiding entirely
of cubic cry dais. O ic finds alfo in Siberia faline fprings,
fait water brooks, and a hill of fait.
Siberia affords many other things which deferve notice.
That ufeful root called rhubarb grows in vaft quantities
near the city of Seleginfk. The curious mammuth’s bones
and horns, as they are called, which are found along the
banks of the Oby, Jenefei, Lena, and Irtifh, are unquel-
tionably the teeth and bones of elephants. But whether
thefe elephants teeth and bones were conveyed to thefe
northern regions by the general deluge, or by any other
inundation, and were by degrees covered with earth, is
a point which might lead us into long and very fruitlefs
difqulfitions •, we (hall therefore only obferve, that fuch
bones have likewife been found in Ruffia, and even in
feveral parts of Germany. A kind of bones of a dill
larger fize than thefe have alfo been dug up in Siberia,
and feem to jiave belonged to an animal of the ox kind.
The horn of the whale called narwhal has been found
in the earth near the rivers Indigirka and Anadir •, and
the teeth of another fpecies of whales, called wolrofs,
about Anadirfkoi. The latter are larger than the com¬
mon fort, which are brought from Greenland, Archan¬
gel, and Kola.
The chain of Siberian mountains reaches from that
of Werchoturie towards the fouth as far as the neigh¬
bourhood of the city of Orienburg, in a continued ridge,
under the name of the Uralian mountains •, but from
thence it alters its direction wedward. Thefe mountains
are a kind of boundary between Ruffia Proper and Si¬
beria. Another chain of hills divides Siberia from the
coun' ry of the Calmucks and Mongolians.—Thefe moun¬
tains, between the rivers Irtidr and Ooy, are called the
Altaic or Goldeh Mountains, which name they after¬
wards lofe, particularly between the river Jenefei and
the Baikal lake, where they are called the Sayanian Siberia
mountains. '
The inhabitants of Siberia confid of the Aborigines v 1 ^ ,
or ancient inhabitants, the Tartars, and Ruffians, com- l4
puted at 3,500,000. Inhabitants.
Some of thefe nations have no other religion but
that of nature •, others are Pagans or Mahometans, and
fome of them have been converted to Chridianity, or
rather only baptifed by the Ruffian miffionaries.
SIBTHORPI A, a genus of plants belonging to the
clafs of didynamia, and to the order of angiolpermia ;
and in the natural fydym claffed with thofe the order of
which is doubtful. See Botany Index.
SIBYLS, in pagan antiquity, certain women faid
to have been endowed with a prophetic fpirit, and to
have delivered oracles, diowing the fates and revolu¬
tions of kingdoms. Their number is unknown. Plato
fpeaks of one, others of two, Pliny ot three, ALlian otpriere's
four, and Varro of ten ; an opinion which is univerfally Diciionaty.
adopted by the learned. Thefe ten Sibyls generally re¬
dded in the foilow'cd places, Perfia, Libya, Delphi,
Cumae in Italy, Erythrcea, Samos, Cumae in Aiolia,
Marpeffa on the Hellefpont, Ancyra in Phrygia, and
Tiburtis. The mod celebrated of the Sibyls is that of
Cumae in Italy, whom fome have called by the different
names of Amalthaea, Demiphile, Herophile, Daphne,
Manto, Phemonoe, and Deiphobe. It is faid, that
Apollo became enamoured of her, and that to make her
fenfible of his paffion he offered to give her whatever
die diould alk. The Sibyl demanded to live as many
years as die had grains of fand in her hand, but unfor¬
tunately forgot to alk for the enjoyment of the health,
vigour, and bloom, of which die was then in poffeffion.
The god granted her requed, but die refufed to gra¬
tify the paffion of her lover though he offered her per¬
petual youth and beauty. Some time after Hie became
old and decrepit, her form decayed, melancholy palenefs
and haggard looks fucceeded to bloom and cheerfulnefs.
She had already lived about 700 years when iEneas
came to Italy, and, as fome have imagined, die had three
centuries more to live before her years were as numerous
as the grains of fand which die had in her hand. She
gave jEneas indruiffions how to find his father in the
infernal regions, and even conduced him to the en¬
trance of hell. It was ufual for the Sibyl to write her
prophecies on leaves, which die placed at the entrance of
her cave ; and it required particular care in fuch as con-
fulted her to take up thefe leaves before they were dif-
perfed by the wind, as their meaning then became in-
comprehenfible. According to the mod authentic hi-
dorians of the Roman republic, one of the Sibyls came
to the palace of Tarquin the Second, with nine volumes,
which die offered to fell for a very high price. The mo¬
narch difregarded her, and die immediately difappeared,
and foon after returned, when die had burned three of
the volumes. She afked the fame price for the remain¬
ing fix books 5 and when Tarquin refufed to buy them,
die burned three more, and dill perfided in demanding
the fame fum of money for the three that were left.—-
This extraordinary behaviour adoniflied Tarquin ; he
bought the books, and the Sibyl indantly vanilhed, and
never after appeared to the world. Thefe books were
preferved with great care by the monarch, and called
the Sibylline verfes. A college of prieds was appointed
to have the care of them
and fuch reverence did the
Romans
S I c
r 3.33 1
S I c
Sibyl*
siciiy.
Boundaries
and extent.
ftiftory du¬
ring trie fa
bulous
ages.
Romans entertain for thefe prophetic books, that they
were confulted with the greateit folemnity, anu only
, when the ftate feemed to be in danger. When the Ca¬
pitol was burnt in the troubles of Sylla, the Sibylline
verfes which were depofited there penihed in tne con¬
flagration •, and to repair the lofs which the republic
feemed to have fudained, commiffioners were immediate¬
ly fent to different parts of Greece to collect whatever
verfes could be found of the infpired writings or the Si¬
byls. The fate of thefe Sibylline verfes which were
collected after the conflagration of the capitol is un¬
known. There are now many Sibylline verfes extant,
but they are reckoned univerfally fpurious j and it is evi¬
dent that they were compofed in the fecond century by
fome off the followers of Chriftianity, who wifhed to con¬
vince the heathens of their error, by afliftmg the caule
of truth with the arms of pious artifice. # _
SICE’dA, a name given to any inebriating liquor by
the Helleniftic Jews. St Chryfoilom, 'LTeodoret, and
Theophilus of Antioch, who were Syrians, and who
therefore ought to know the fignification and natuxe or
“ ficera,” affure us, that it properly fignifies palm-wine.
Pliny acknowledges, that the wine of the palm tree was
very well known through all the end, and that it was
made by taking a bufliel of the dates of the palm-tree,
and throwing them into three gallons of water ; then
fqueezing out the juice, it would intoxicate like wine.
The wine of the palm tree is white : when it is diuim
new, it has the tafte of the cocoa, and is Iweet as honey.
When it is kept longer, it grows iirong, and intoxicates.
After long keeping, it becomes vinegar.
SICILIAN, in Mufic, denotes a kind of gay fpnght-
ly air, or dance, probably invented in Sicily, fomewhat of
the nature of an Englifh jig ; uiually marked with the
charafders | or -g-. It confids of two drains j the firft
of four, and the fecond of eight, bars or meafures.
SICILY, is a large blind in the Mediterranean lea,
adjoining to the fouthern extremity of Italy, and ex-
tends fro m latitude 36J 25' to latitude 38 ^5 ’ aiK
from longitude 12° 50' to longitude 16 5' ead from
London. Its greated length 210 miles, breadth 133,
circumference 6do-, its form triangular, the three an¬
gles beino- the promontories of Pelorum, Pachynum, and
Lilybseum, or as they are now called the Faro, Capo
Paffara, and Capo Boco. It is divided from Italy oy
theftraits of Medina, reaching from the Power of fa¬
ro which is the mod northerly part of the idand, to
the Capo dell' Arm/, or the Cape of Arms, the mod fouth¬
ern part of Calabria. Thefe draits, by the Latins
called Frctum S/culum, by the Italians II Faro di
ftna, and by us the Faro of Me fin a, are between 1 2
and 1 5 miles over in the broaded places, and in the nar¬
rowed about a mile and an half-, infomuch that when
Medina was taken by the Carthaginians, many of the
inhabitants are faid to have faved themielves by fwim-
ming to the oppolite coad of Italy. Hence has aulen
an opinion that the idand of-Sicily was originally join¬
ed to the continent, but afterwards feparated by an earth¬
quake or fome other natural caule. Phis reparation,
however, is reckoned by the mod judicious among the
ancients to be fabulous -, and they content themfelves
with fpeaking of it as a thing faid to have happened.
Anciently this idand was called Sicania, Sicilia, and
Trinacria or Triquetra,- the two former it had from the
Sicani and Siculi, who peopled a confiderable part of Sicily,
the country \ the two latter from its triangular figure.
Its fird inhabitants, according to the mod refpedtable
ancient authors, were the Cyclopes and Ltedrigones,
who are faid to have fettled in the countries adjoining
to Mount Etna 3 but of their origin we know nothing,
except what is related by the poets. After them came
the Sicani, who called themfelves the original inhabi¬
tants of the country ; but feveral ancient hidorians in¬
form us that they came from a country in Spain wa¬
tered by the rivet Siconus. Diodorus, however, is of
opinion, that the Sicani were the mod ancient inhabi¬
tants of this bland. He tells us that they were in pof-
feffion of the whole, and applied themfelves to cultivate
and improve the ground in the neighbourhood of Etna,
which was the mod fruitful part of the idand . tiiey
built feveral fmall towns and villages on the hills to fc->
cure themfelves againlt thieves and robbers j and were
governed, not by one prince, but each city and didrift
by its own king. Thus they lived till Etna began to
throw out dames, and forced them to retire to the wed-
ern parts of the Aland, which they continued to inhabit,
in the time of Thucydides. Some irojans, affer the
dedruftion of their city, landed in the idand, fettled
among the Sicani, and built the cities of Eryx and E-
geifa, uniting themielves with them, and taking the ge¬
neral name V Elymi or Elymaei. They were after¬
wards joined by fome Phocenfes, who fettled heie on
their return from the liege of Troy.
After the Sicani had for many ages enjoyed an un-
didurbed poffedion of the whole of Sicily, or fuch parts
of it as they chofe to inhabit, they were vidted^by the-
Siculi, who were the ancient inhabitants ot Auionia
properly fo called ; but being driven out from thence
by the Opici, they took refuge in the idand of Sicily.
Not being contented with the narrow bounds allowed
them by the Sicani, they began to encroach upon their
neighbours j upon which a war enfuing, the Sicani were
utterly defeated, and confined to a corner 01 the idand,
the name of which was now changed irom Sicaaia into
that of Sicilia. . ,
About 300 years after the arrival of the Siculi, the
idand fird began to be known to the Greeks, who cda-.
blilhed various colonies, and built many cities in diffe¬
rent parts of the idand , and it is only from tne time
of their arrival that we have any hidory of the idand.
The fird of the Greeks that came into Sicily were the
Chalcidians of Euboea, under the conduft of Thucles,
who built Naxus, and a famous altar of Apollo, which,
as Thucydides tells us, was dill Handing in his time
without the city. The year after, which was, accord¬
ing to Dibnyfius Hahcarnaffenfis, the third ot the 17I'1
CHympiad, Archias the Corinthian, one of the Hera-
clidte, laid the foundations of Syracufe. Seven years
after, a new colony of Chalcidians founded Leontini
and Catana, after having driven out the Siculi, who in¬
habited that traft. About the fame time Larnis, with
a colony from Megara, a city of Achaia, fettled on the
river Pantacius, at a place called Trotilum, where his
adventurers lived fome time in common with the Chal¬
cidians of Leontini -, but, being driven from thence by
the Leontines, he built the city of Ihapfus, where he
died Upon his death, the colony left Thapfus ; and
under the conduft of Hyblon king of the Siculi, found-
ed Megara Hybkea, where they redded 245 years, till
4 A
\
\
SIC
Sicily.
[ 534
Swin¬
burne's
Travels in
the Two Si¬
cilies, vol ii,
p. 176.
.3
Grecian
colonies in
Sicily.
they were driven out by Gelon tyrant.of Syracufe. Du¬
ring their abode at Megara, they fent one Pamilus, who
was come from Megara in Achaia, their original city,
to build Selinus. This city was founded about 100
years after the foundation of Megara. Antiphemus
and Entimus, the former a Rhodian, the other a Cre¬
tan, led each a colony of their countrymen, and jointly
built the city of Gela on a river of the fame name, efta-
blifhing in their new fettlement the Doric cultoms,
about. 45 years after the founding of Syracufe. The
inhabitants of Gela founded Agrigentum 108 years af¬
ter their arrival in Sicily, and introduced the fame cuf-
toms there. A few years after, Zancle was built by
the pirates of Cumee in Italy ; but chiefly peopled by
the Chalcidians, Samians, and lonians, who chofe rather
to feek new fettlements than live under the Perfian
yoke. Some time after, Anaxales, tyrant of Rhegium,
drove out the ancient proprietors ; and, dividing his
lands amongft his followers, called the city MeJJana or
MeJJenc, which was the name of his native city in Pelo-
ponnefus. The city of Plimera was founded by the
Zancleans under the direction of Eucleides, Simus, and
Sacon } but peopled by the Chalcidians and fome Syra-
culan exiles, who had been driven out by the contrary
faftian.
The Syracufans built Acrse, Chafmenac, and Cama-
rina; the firft 70 years, the fecond 90, and the third
J35> a^ter the: foundation of their own city. This is
the account which Thucydides, a molt judicious and
exa£t writer, gives us of the various nations, whether
Greeks or Barbarians, who fettled in Sicily. Strabo
counts among the ancient inhabitants of Sicily the Mor-
getes, who being driven out of Italy by the Oenotrians,
lettled in that part of the ifland wdrere the ancient city
of Morgantium flood. The Campani, who aflumed the
name of Mamertini, that is, invincible warriors, and the
Carthaginians, who fettled very early in Sicily, ought
likewife to be counted among the ancient inhabitants of
the ifland.
.Before this period the hiflory of Sicily is blended
with fables like the early hiflory of almoft every other
country. After the fettlement of the Greeks* in the
ifland, its various revolutions have been traced from
their feveral fources by many writers ; but by none with
greater accuracy than Mr Swinburne. From his ac¬
count of his .Travels in the Fwo Sicilies, wTehave there¬
fore taken the following concife hiflory of this king¬
dom, which will at once gratify fuch of our readers as
intereft themfelves in the fate of a generous people
who long ftruggled in vain for freedom; and at the
1’.me time aftord them a fpecimen of the entertainment
they may receive from the very elegant work of the
author.
“ Ariftocracy prevailed at flrft in the Greek fettle¬
ments, but foon made way for tyranny-, wdiich in its
turn was expelled by democracy. One of the earlieft
deftroyers of common liberty was Phalaris of Agrigen-
tum, who reigned 600 years before Chrift : his example
was contagious *, a legion of tyrants fprung up, and not
a commonwealth in the ifland efcaped the lafli of an
ufurper. Syracufe was moft opprefled and torn to
pieces by diflenfion ; as its wealth and preponderance
in the general fcale dield out a greater temptation than
other cities to the ambition of wicked men. It requires
the combined teflimony of hiftorians to enforce our be-
4
S I G
lief or its wonderful profperity, and the no lefs extraor- Sicily.
dinary tyranny of fome of its fovereigns. Thefe Gre-' 
cian colonies attained to fuch excellence in arts and
faiences as emboldened them frequently to vie with the
learned and ingenious in the mother country j nay, often
enabled them to bear away the palm of victory : there
needs no ftronger proof of their literary merits than a
bare recital of the names of Archimedes, Theocritus,
Gorgias, and Charondas.
But the Sicilian Greeks were not deftined to en-Carthagi-
joy the fweets of their fitualion without moleftation. nianscon-
Very foon after their arrival, the inhabitants of the fluer &reat
neighbouring coaft of Africa began to afpire to a tharepart °f U'
of Sicily. Carthage fent large bodies of forces at dif¬
ferent times to eflablilh their powder in the ifland, and
about^ 500 years before the Chriftan era had made
themfelves mailers of all the weftern parts of it. The
Siculi retained pofleflion of the midland country, and
the fouthern and eaftern coafts were inhabited by the
Greeks. ^
“ About that time Gelo was chofen prince of Syra- Gd0 cho«
cufe on account of his virtues, which grew ftill morefen kinS*
confpicuous after his exaltation ; had the example he
fet been followed by his fucceflbrs, the advantages of
freedom would never have been known or wiihed for by
the Syracufans. The Carthaginians found in him a vi¬
gorous opponent to their projeft of enflaving Sicily, a
project invariably purfued but never accompliflied.
“ Hiero fucceeded his brother Gelo, and, contrary Is fu„feecIed
to the ufual progreflion, began his reign by a difplay by Hiero.C
of bad qualities. Senfible of his error, and improved
by experience, he afterwards adopted more equitable
meafures. At his death the Syracufans threw off the
yoke, and for flxty years revelled in all the joys of
freedom. Their peace was, however, difturbed" by the
Athenians and the Carthaginians. The latter plunder¬
ed Agrigentum, and threatened ruin to the reft of the
Grecian ftates 5 but a treaty of peace averted that ftorm.
The Athenians, under pretence of fupporting their a!-
lies the people of Segefta, but in reality from a thirft
of dominion, invefted Syracufe with a formidable land
and naval armament under the command of Nicias ; in
confequence of a ralh indigefted plan, ill conducted at¬
tacks, and inadequate fupplies, their whole hoft was cut
to pieces or led away into captivity.
“ Syracufe had fcarcely time to breathe after her vie- Dion>fin?
tory ere inteftine wars broke out, and railed Dionyflus the elder
to fupreme command. Avarice, defpotifm, and cruel-antl
ty, marked every day of his reign ; but his military en-younger‘
terprifes were crowned with conftant fuccefs. He died
in peace, and bequeathed a powerful fovereignty to a
fon of his name tainted with the fame and worfe vices,
but not endowed with equal capacity and martial abili¬
ty : in fuch hands the rod of tyranny ceafed to be for¬
midable, and the tyrant was driven out of Sicily by the
patriotic party ; but matters were not fufficientiy fettled
for popular government, and Dionyfius refumed the
feeptre for a while, till Timoleon forced him into perpe¬
tual exile.” s
Liberty feemed now to be eftabliflied on a permanent A^nthocles
bafis; but in Syracule luch profpefts always proved il- the tyrant,
lufory. Agathocles, a tyrant more inhuman than any
preceding ufurper, feized the throne, and deluged the
country with blood. He was involved in a perilous
conteft with the Carthaginians, who obtained many ad¬
vantages
S I c
[ 335 ]
SIC
9
Pyrrhus
king of
Epirus de¬
ceives the
Sicilians.
Sicily, vantages over him, drove his troops from poll; to poft,
■—y—^ and at hft blocked up his capital. In this defperate
fituation, when all foreign helps were precluded, and
hardly a refource remained at home, the genius of A-
gathocles compaffed his deliverance by a plan that was
imitated among the ancients by Hannibal, and among
the moderns by the famous Cortes. He embarked with
the flower of his army) forced his way through innu¬
merable obftacles; landed in Africa-, and, having burnt
his fleet, routed the Carthaginians in a pitched battle,
and laid their territory wafte. Carthage feemed to be
on the brink of ruin, and that hour might have marked
- her downfal had the Sicilian hoft been compofed of pa¬
triotic foldiers, and not of ungovernable affaflins j difeord
pervaded the vidlorious camp, murder and riot enfued j
and the tyrant, after beholding his children and friends
butchered before his face, efcaped to Sicily, to meet a
death as tragical as his crimes deterved.
Anarchy now raged throughout the ifland, and every
faftion was reduced to the neceflity of calling in the af-
fiftance of foreign powers •, among whom Pyrrhus king
of Epirus took the lead, and reduced all parties to fome
degree of order and obedience. But ambition foon
prompted him to invade thofe rights which he came to
defend ; he cart off the mafic, and made Sicily feel un¬
der his fway as heavy a hand as that of its former op-
preflbrs 5 but the Sicilians foon alTumed courage and
IO ftrength enough to drive him out of the ifland.
The Ma- About this period the Mamertini, whom Mr Swin-
mertini fur- bm-jm indignantly ftyles a crew of mifereants, furprifed
''^and^fre Medina, and, after a general maffacre of the citizens,
affifted by eflablhhed a republican form of government. Their com-
the Ro- monwealth became fo troublefome a neighbour to the
mans; Greeks, that Hiero II. who had been railed to the
chief command at Syracufe in confideration of his fupe-
rior wifdom and warlike talents, found himfelf neceflita-
ted to form a league with Carthage, in order to deflroy
this neft of villains. In their diitrefs the Mamertini
implored the afliftance of Home, though the fenate had
recently punifhed with exemplary feverity one of
their own legions for a fimilar outrage committed at
Ilhegium. The virtue of the Romans gave way to the
temptation, and the defire of extending their empire be¬
yond the limits of Italy, caft a veil over every odious
circumflance attending this alliance. A Roman army
eroded the Faro, relieved Medina, defeated the Car¬
thaginians, and humbled Hiero into an ally of the re¬
public.
Thus began the firfl Punic war, which wras carried
es rife toon for many years in Sicily with various fuccefs. The
genius of Hamilcar Barcas fupported the African caufe
under numberlefs difappointments, and the repeated
overthrows of his colleagues 5 at lafi, finding his exer¬
tions ineffectual, he advifed the Carthaginian rulers to
purchafe peace at the price of Sicily. Such a treaty
wras not likely to be obferved longer than want of ftrength
fhould curb the animoflty of the vanquiihed party: when
their vigour was recruited, Hannibal i’on of Hamilcar ea-
I2 lily perfuaded them to refume the conteft, and for 16
The fecoml years waged war in the heart of the Roman territories.
Tunic war Meanwhile Hiero conducted himfelf with fo much pru¬
dence, that he retained the friendfinp of both parties,
and preferved his portion of Sicily in perfect tranquillity.
He died in extreme old age, belove.l and refpeCted both
at home and abroad.
11
which
the Irrft
Punic war.
railed by
Hannibal.
His grandfon Hieronymus, forfaking this happy line Sicily,
of politics, and contrafting an alliance with Carthage,~y—
fell an early victim to the troubles which his own folly
had excited. Once more, and for the laft time, the Sy-
racufans found themfelves in poffeflion of their indepen¬
dence : but the times were no longer fuited to fuch a
fyftem 5 difienfions gained head, and diftradted the pub¬
lic councils. Carthage could not fupport them, or pre¬
vent Marcellus from undertaking the fiege of Syracufe,
immortalized by the mechanical efforts of Archimedes,
and the immenfity of the plunder. See Syracuse. 13
The Sicilians after this relinquiflied all martial ideas, Sicily con-
and during a long feries of generations turned their at-fl“erse<^y
tention folely to the arts of peace and the labours °fcens"aiui
agriculture. Their pofition in the centre of the Ro-afterwards
man empire preferved them both from civil and foreign by the Nor-
foes, except in two inftances of a fervile war. The ra-mans'>
pacity of their governors was a more conftant and in-
fupportable evil. In this ftate of apathy and opulence
Sicily remained down to the 7th century of our era,
when the Saracens began to difturb its tranquillity.
The barbarous nations of the north had before invaded
and ravaged its coafts, but had not long kept poffeflion.
The Saracens were more fortunate. In 827 they avail¬
ed themfelves of quarrels among the Sicilians to fubdue
the country. Palermo was cholen for their capital, and
the ftandard of Mahomet triumphed about 200 years.
In 1038 George Maniaces was fent by the Gteek em¬
peror with a great army to attack Sicily. He made
good his landing, and pufhed his conquefts with vigour :
his fuccefs arofe from the valour of fome Norman troops,
which were at that time unemployed and ready to lell
their fervices to the bell bidder. Maniaces repaid them
with ingratitude } and by his abfurd conduft gave the
Muffelmans time to breathe, and the Normans a pretext
and opportunity of invading the Imperial dominions in
Italy. Robert and Roger of Hauteville afterwards con¬
quered Sicily on their own account, not as mercenaries;
for having fubftantially fettled their power on the con¬
tinent, they turned their arms againft this ifland in obe¬
dience to the dictates of zeal and ambition. After ten
years ftruggle, the Saracens yielded up the rich prize,
and Robert ceded it to his brother Roger, who affumed
the title of Great Earl of Sicily, ruled the ftate with
wifdom, and ranks defervedly among the greateft cha-
rafters in hiftory. He raifed himfelf from the humble
Ration of a poor younger fon of a private gentleman, to
the exalted dignity of a powerful monarch, by the foie
force of his own genius and courage ; he governed a na¬
tion of ftrangers with vigour and juftice, and tranfmitted
his poffeiTions undifputed to his pofterity. Such an af-
femblage of great qualities is well intitled to our admi¬
ration.
T4
He was fucceeded by his fon Simon, whofe reign was Under the
ILorf, and made way for a fecond fon called Roger. In
1127 this prince joined to his Sicilian poffeffions the^”1^*
whole inheritance of Robert Guifcard (fee Naples, narchc. "
N° 23.), and affumed the regal ftyle. The greatelt
part of his reign was taken up in quelling revolts in Ita¬
ly, but Sicily enjoyed profound peace. In 1154 his
fon William afeended the throne, and paffed his life in
war ana confufion. William II. fucceeded his father,
and died without iffue. Tancred, though bafely bom,
rvas eledled his fucccffor, and after him his fon William
III..who was vanquiftied by Henry of Swabia. During
the
r
\
SIC [ .33^ ] SIC
, Sicily. t^e troubles that agitated tbe reign of bis fon the cm-
~'v peror Frederic, peace appears to have been tbe lot of
Sicily. A fhort-lived (edition, and a revolt of tbe Sa¬
racens, are the only commotions of which we read. For
greater fecurity, the Saracens were removed to Puglia
400 years after the conqueft of Sicily by their anceflors.
Under Conrad and Manfred Sicily remained quiet j and
from that time the hiftory of Sicily is related under the
15 article Naples, N° 20, &c.
Is at length At the death of Charles II. of Spain, his fpcils be-
-Xf came an objeft of furious contention j and at the peace
niafcls. ' Utrecht, Sicily was ceded to Viftor duke of Savoy,
who, not many years after, was forced by the emperor
Charles VI. to relinquifh that fine ifland, and lake Sar¬
dinia as an equivalent. But as the Spaniards had no
concern in thefe bargains, they made a fudden attempt
to recover Sicily, in w'hich they failed through the vi¬
gilance of the Englifh admiral Byng. He deffroyed
their fleet in 1718, and compelled them to drop their
fcheme for a time. In 1734 the Spanifh court refumed
their defign wuth fuccefs. The infant Don Carlos drove
the Germans out, and was crowned king of the two Si¬
cilies at Palermo. When he palled into Spain to take
poffeflion of that crown, he transferred the Sicilian dia¬
dem to his fon Ferdinand III. of Sicily, and IV. of
Naples, and it has ever fince remained in the poueflion
1(; of the fame family.
Account of Sicily is feparated, as we have already obferved, frcm
the ftraits Italy by a narrow fcrait called the Ftfro This
ot Meffina. ftrait is ftill remarkable for the rapidity of its currents
and the irregular ebbing and flowing of the fea, which
fometimes rufhes in with fuch violence as to endanger
fhips riding at anchor. Anciently it was much more
remarkable for Scylla and Charybdis, the one a rock,
and the other a whirlpool, between which it was very
dangerous to fleer, and concerning wTuch fo many fables
have been related by the ancients. Scylla is a rock on
the Italian fide, oppofite to Cape Pylores, which runs
out into the fea on the Sicilian fide. Mr Brydone in¬
forms us, that the navigation of the Arabs is not even yet
performed without danger. He alfo informs us, that the
noife of the current which fets through the ftraits may
be heard for feveral miles, like tbe roaring of feme large
impetuous river confined between narrow banks. In
many places the w7ater rofe into whirlpools and eddies,
which are dangerous to (hipping. The current fet ex-
a£tly for the rock of Scylla, and W’ould certainly have
carried any thing throivn into it againft that point. Our
author, however, is by no means of opinion that the
ftrait is fo dangerous as the ancients have reprefented it •,
though he thinks that the ftrait is now probably much
wider than formerly, which may have diminiftied the
danger. There are many fmall rocks, which (how their
heads near the bafe of the large ones. Thefe are pro¬
bably the dogs deferibed by the ancient poets as howling
round Scylla. The rock is near 200 feet high, and has
a kind of caftle or fort built on its fummit with a town
called Scy/la or Scig/io, containing 300 or 400 inhabi¬
tants on its fouth fide, which gives the title of prince to
a Calabrefe family.
The following account of thefe rocks and whirlpools
is.given by the celebrated naturalift Spallanzani. He in¬
forms us, that Scylla is a lofty rock, 12 miles from Mef¬
fina, rifing almoft perpendicular from the fea on the
(bore of Calabria, beyond which is the (mall city of the Sici
fame n <me. Though there was (carceiy any wind, Spal- '““"'v
lanzani heard, about two miles diftant from the rock, a
noife like a confuted barking of dogs, and on a nearer
approach he difeovered the caufc. This reck contains
a number o( caverns, one of the largeft of which is call¬
ed by the people D agara. The waves, when in the
leaft agitated, luilung into thefe caverns, break, dafti,
throw7 up frothy bubbles, and thus occation thefe vari¬
ous and multiplied founds. He then perceived with
how much truth and reftmblance of nature Homer and
Virgil, in their perfonificaiions o! Scylla, had pourtray-
ed this feene, by deferibing the rconfter they drew7 as
linking in the darknefs of a vafl cavern, furrounded by
ravenous barking maftiffs, together with wolves, to in-
creale the horror.
Though the tide is almoft imperceplible in the open
parts of the Mediterranean, it is very ftreng in the ftrait
ol Medina, owing to the narrowneis of the channel, and
regulated by the periodical elevations and depreffions of
the w7ater. Where the current is accompanied by a
wind blowing the fame way, veflels have nothing to
fear, fince they either go not enter the (trait, both the
wind and ftream oppofing them •, or, if both are favour¬
able, enter on full fail, and pais with fuch rapidity that
they feem to fly over the water. When the current
runs from fouth to north, and the north wind blows hard
at the feme time, the (hip is refifted by the oppofite cur¬
rent, and impelled by two forces in contrary diredlions,
is da (bed on the rock of Scylla, or driven on the neigh¬
bouring fands. The cunent, where it is ftrengeft, does
not extend over the whole ftrait, but winds through it
in intricate meanders, with the courfe of which the Tai¬
lors ftationed to give ftrangers afliftance are wTell ac¬
quainted, and thus able to guide the (hip in fuch a man¬
ner as to avoid it. Should the pilot, however, confid¬
ing in his own (kill, neglecft fuch afiiftance, he would
run the moil imminent rifle of being (hipwrecked. In
this conflifl of the waters, it is ufeleis to throw the line
to difeover the depth of the bottom, the violence of the
current frequently carrying the lead almoft on the fur-
face of the water. The ftrongeft cables, though fome
feet in circumference, break like fmall cords. Every
expedient afforded by the art of navigation, is u(ele(s
here. The only means of avoiding being daftred againft;
the rocks, or driven upon the fands in the midft of this
perilous conteft of the winds and w'aves, is to have re-
courfe to the (kill and courage of the Mtflinefe Tea¬
men.
Charybdis is diftant from the fhore of Medina about
7 feet, and is crdled by the people of the country Ca-
Icforo, not from the agitation of the waves, but from
and beautiful lower, from tbe ligbthoufe
erebled near it for the guidance ofvtfiels. When the cur¬
rent fets in from the north, the pilots call it the defeend-
ivg rema, or current ) and when it runs from the fouth,
the afeending retna. The current afeends or defeends
at the rifing or fetting of the moon, and continues for
fix hours. In the interval between each afeent or de-
feent, there is a calm which lads at lead 15 minutes,
but not longer than an hour. Afterwards, at the rifing
or fetting of the moon, the current enters from the
north, making various angles of incidence with the (bore,
and at laft reaches the Calofaro. This delay fometimes
continues
3
Sicily’.
SIC [ 337 3 SIC
continues two hours; fometimes it immediately falls in¬
to the Calofaro ; and then experience regards it as a
certain indication of bad weather.
When Spallanzani obferved Charybdis from the fliore,
it appeared like a group of tumultuous waters, which
group as he approached, became more extenlive and
more agitated. He wTas carried to the edge, where he
flopped fome time to make the requifite obfervations j
and was then convinced beyond the lhadow of a doubt,
that wThat he faw was by no means a vortex or whirl¬
pool.
Though he was convinced that there was no gulf
under the Calofaro, as otherwife there would have been
a whirlpool, which would have carried down into it the
floating fubltances; he determined to found the bottom
writh a plummet, and found its greateft depth did not
exceed 500 feet. He w’as alfo informed, to his great
furprife, that beyond the Calofaro, towards the middle
of the llrait, the depth was double.
When the wind and current are contrary to each
other, and both in their greateft violence, the fwrelling
and dafhing of the waves within the Calofaro is much
ftronger, more impetuous, and more extenfive. It then
contains three or four fmall whirlpools, or even more,
according to the greatnefs of its extent and violence. If
at this time fmall veflels are driven into the Calofaro by
the current or the wind, they are feen to whirl round,
rock, and plunge, but are never drawn down into the
vortex. They only fink when filled with water, by
the waves beating over them. When veffels of a larger
fixe are forced into it, whatever wind they have they
cannot extricate themfelves j their fails are ufelefs ; and
after having been for fome time toffed about by the
waves, if they are not aflifted by the pilots of the coun¬
try, who know how to bring them out of the courfe of
the current, they are furioufly driven upon the neigh¬
bowring (bore of the L^hterna, w'here they are wrecked,
and the greater part of their crews perilh in the waves.
If a Ihip be extricated from the fury of Charybdis,
and carried by a ftrong foutherly wind along the ftrait
towards the northern entrance, it will indeed pafs out
fafely ; but fliould it meet with a wind in a nearly op-
pofite dire£tion, it would become the fport of both thefe
wdnds, and, unable to advance or recede, be driven in a
middle courfe between their two directions, that is to
fay, full upon the rock of Scylla, if it be not immedi¬
ately aflifted by the pilots. It is likewife obferved, that
in thefe hurricanes a land wind frequently riles, which
defcends from a narrow pafs in Calabria, and increafes
the force with which the (hip is impelled towards the
rock. Thus, the faying which became proverbial among
the ancients 5—that “ he who endeavours to avoid Cha-
lybdis, dalhes upon Scylla,” is, in a great meafure, true.
In the ftraits, Mr Brydone informs us, a moft furpri-
fing phenomenon is to be obferved. In the heat of fum-
mer, after the fea and air have been much agitated,
there appears in the heavens over the ftraits a great va¬
riety of Angular forms, fome at reft and others moving
with great velocity. Thefe forms, in proportion as the
light increafes, fcem to become more aerial, till at baft,
fome time before llinrife, they totally difappear. The
Sicilians reprefent this as the moft beautiful fight in na¬
ture. Leonti, one of the beft S’cilian writers, fays,
that the heavens appear crowded with a variety of ob¬
jects, fuch as palaces, woods, gardens, &c. befides the
figures of men and other animals that are feen in motion
Vol. XIX. Parti.
among them. Some treatifes have been written con- Sicily,
cerning this phenomenon j but nothing fatisfaClory has ‘'J
been delivered concerning its caufe. j
Though Sicily lies in a warm climate, the air iscj;mari.
healthful, being reffefhed with fea-breezes on every fide, and pro-
It has at all times been remarkably fertile $ but the era dace,
of its greateft profperity was from the fiege of Syracufe
by the Athenians to the Carthaginian conquefts. Then Walkin's
and long after it fupplied with grain, in years of fear- ^[avei:,
city, all the countries upon the Mediterranean except
Egypt and the coafts of Afia, and Rome and Carthage
continually. Even now, under all the impediments of Sicily,
fuperftition and bad government, its produClions are,
in quantity and quality, the beft in Europe. Of the
vegetable are grain, wines, oil, fruits, tobacco, mulber¬
ry trees for the filkworm, cotton, medicinal roots, and
fugar canes. The laft of thefe flourilh near Avola and
Merilli. They are of an inferior quality to thofe of
the Weft Indies, but their fugar is fweeter than any
other. The animal produClion is fimilar to that of
Italy, but the horned cattle are a fmaller breed. The
coafts abound with filh, particularly rvith tunney and
anchovies ; the export of which forms a very lucrative
branch of commerce. There are mines of filver, copper,
and lead, but none are worked. Near Palma are beds
of the beft fulphur ; at the mouth of the river Giaretta
is found a yellow amber, preferable to that of the Bal¬
tic : and in every part of the ifland quarries of marbles,
that have furnifhed materials for all the noble edifices of
Sicily. The moft beautiful are in the neighbourhood
of Palermo, particularly the yellow’, and thofe that re-
femble the verde antique, porphyry, and lapis lazuli.
The population of the ifland amounts to 1,300,000 fouls j
not as much again as the Angle city of Syracufe former¬
ly contained.
Here are feveral rivers and good fprings ; but few of ,^jvg^s antj
the rivers are navigable, having but a Ihort courfe, and mountains,
defeending precipitately from the mountains. The chief
are the Bantera, the Jaretta, and the Salfo of which,
the two former run from weft to eaft, and the third from
north to fouth.
Of the mountains in this ifland the moft noted is
Mount Etna, now called Monte Gibe/lo, or Mongibel/o,
a volcano whofe eruptions have often proved fatal to the
neighbouring country. See Etna. . ^
Were the Sicilians a cultivated people, among whomconftitu-
thofe arts w’ere encouraged wdiich not only promote tion and go-
the wealth and comfort of a nation, but alfo exercife the verrimeni-
nobler faculties and extend the views of mankind, the inter's
circumftances of their government are fuch, that
might gradually be improved into a free conftitution : Naples and
but to this, the ignorance, fuperftition, and poverty, of Sicily.
the people feem to be invincible obftacles. The mo¬
narchical power in Sicily is far from being abfolute ;
and the parliament claims a ftiare of public authority
independently of the will of the king, deduced from a
compact made between Roger and the Norman barons
after the expulfion of the Saracens. This claim is de¬
nied by the king, who willies the nobles to confider
their privileges as derived folely from his favour. Hence
the government is in a fituation which greatly refembles
that of our ow-n and the other kingdoms of Europe in
the feudal times ; there are continual jealoufies and op-
pofitions between the king and the barons, of which an
enlightened people might eafily take advantage, and ob¬
tain that (hare in the conftitution vvliich might fecuie
U u them
Sic- [ 338 ] SID
Sicily, them from future opprefiion. In thefe difputes, the
■ king has the advantage at lead of power if not of right;
and i’everal works, in which the claims of the Sicilian
barons have been aflerted, were publicly burned not
many years ago.
As the fovereign holds his court at Naples, Sicily is
governed by a viceroy, who is appointed only for three
years, though at the end of that term his commiffion is
fometimes renewed. He lives in great Itate, and, as
the reprefentative of the king, his power is very confi-
derable. He prefides in all the courts and departments
of government, and is commander in chief of all the
forces : he calls or diflblves the parliament when he
pleafes; and by him all orders, law’s, and fentences, mult
be figned : but his office is far from being defirable, as
it generally renders him the object either of the jealouly
of the court of Naples, or of the hatred of the Sicilians.
The parliament coni'ifls of the nobles, the bifhops,
and abbots, and the reprefentatives of 43 cities, which
are immediately fubjeft to the crown. Thole cities
which are fubjeft to any of the nobles fend no members
to the parliament ; in thefe the king has not much au¬
thority, and derives little advantage from them. Ac¬
cording to the laws, the parliament ought to be afiem-
bled at the end of every three years : but tire govern¬
ment pays little attention to this rule. The common
people are in general very much attached to the nobles,
and are inclined to take their part in all their differen¬
ces with the court : but the magiftrates and principal
inhabitants of the cities which belong to thefe feudal
lords, wiffi to get rid of their authority, and imagine
that they ffiould be lefs eppreffed, if immediately iub-
jefit to the king : thefe inclinations are not difagreeable
to the court, and are encouraged by moft of the law¬
yers, who are of great fervice to government in conteft-
ing the privileges of the nobles. Many of thefe privi-'
leges are now abridged ; and the power of the barons,
with refpedt to the adminiffration of juftice in their do¬
mains, wras very properly limited by the viceroy Ca-
raccioli, in the year 1785. The government of this
nobleman w’as very beneficial to Sicily, as he, in a great
meafure, cleared the ifland of the banditti that uied to
infelt it, and made feveral excellent regulations for the
eftablilhment of focial order and perfonal fecurity. file
In nlkion ^e^erves ^ thanks of every well-wilher to mankind for
1 * having abolilhed the court of inquifition, wdrich had
been eftablilhed in this country by Ferdinand the Ca¬
tholic, and made dependent on the authority of the
grand inquifitor of Spain. Its laft a//to da fe wTas held
in the year 1724, when twro perfons were burned. At
length Charles III. rendered it independent of the Spa-
niflr inquifitqr, and abridged its pow’er, by forbidding it
to make ufe of the torture, and to inffift public punifh-
ments. The Marchefe Squillace, and his fucceflbr the
Marchefe Tanucci, w’ere both enemies to the hierarchy ;
and, during their viceroyalties, took care to appoint fen-
fible and liberal men to the office of inquifitor : the laff:
of whom was Ventimiglia, a man of a moll humane and
amiable character, who heartily wiffied for the abolition
of this diabolical court, and readily contributed toward
it. While he held the office of inquifitor, he always
endeavoured to procure the acquittal of the accufed ; and
when he could fucceed no other way, would pretend
fome informality in the trial. The total annihilation of
this infirument of the worft of tyranny was referved for
Caraccioli. A piieft being accufed to the inquifilion, S'cily
was dragged out ol his houfe and thrown into the dun- jl
geon. He was condemned •, but, on account of infor- Slc‘a~
mulity, and a violation of juitice in the trial, he appeal- ’*
bd to the viceroy, who appointed a committee of juritts
to examine the procefs. The inquifitor relufed to ac¬
knowledge the.authority of this commiffion 5 pretending
that to ex pole the fecrets of the holy office, and to lub-
mit its decilions to the examination of lay judges, would
be lo inconfiffent with his duty, that he would fee the 2t
inquifition abolilhed rather than confent to it. Caraccj- aboliflu-cl
oli took him at hss word, and procured a royal mandate by Carac-
by which the holy office was at once annihilated. Hec‘oli‘
afl'embled ail the nobility, judges, and bilhops, on the
27th of March 1782, in the palace of the inquifition,
and commanded the king’s order to be read ; after
which he took polTeflion',of the archives, and caulcd ail
the prifons to be let open : in thefe were at that time
only two prifoners, who had been condemned to per¬
petual confinement for witchcraft. The papers rela¬
ting to the finances were preferved \ but all the reff
W’ere publicly burned. The pofieffions of the holy office
were affigned to the ufe of chinches and charitable in-
ftitutions : but the officers then belonging to it retained
their falaries during their lives. The palace itieif is
converted into a culiorchcufe, and the place where he¬
retics were formerly roafted alive for the honour of the
Catholic faith, is now changed into a public garden.
The cognizance of offences againlt orthodoxy is com¬
mitted to the biihops : but they cannot cite any one
to appear before them without permiffion from the vice¬
roy *, neither can they confine any perfon to a folitary
prifon, nor deny him the privilege of writing to his
friends, and cenverfing freely with his advocate. 'I he
nobility are fo numerous in this ifland, that Labat fays
it is paved with noblemen. The .general affembly of
parliament is compofed of 66 archbiihops, bifhops, ab¬
bots, and priors, which form the Bracehio eccleliailico.
Fifty-eight princes, 27 dukes. 37 marquiffes, 27 counts,
one vifeount, and 79 barons, iorm the militaire.; and
the demaniale confilts of 43 reprefentatives of free towns.
Out of each bracchio four deputies are chofen to con¬
duct: public bufinefs. But the viceroy, the prince of
Butera, and the prfetor of Palermo, are always the three
firft. Such was the government of Sicily while the
Neapolitan monarchy remained entire 5 but fince the
latter was ufurped by the French, Sicily is all that is left
to its former pofl'effor.
SICINIUS Dkntatus, a tribune of the people,
lived a little after the expulfion of the kings from Rome.
He wTas in 120 battles and fkirmifhes, befides fingle com¬
bats, in all of which he came off conqueror, file fervtd
under nine generals, all of whom triumphed by his
means. In thefe battles he received 45 wounds in the
forepart of his body, and not one in his back. The fe-
nate made him great prefents, and he was honoured with
the name of the Roman Achilles.
SICYOS, a genus of plants belonging to the clafs of
monoecia, and to the order of fyngenefia ; and in the
natural fyftem arranged under the 34th order, Cucur-
bitacece. See Botany Index.
SiJDA, Yellow or Indian MALLOW, a genus of plants
belonging to the clafs of monadelphia, and to the order
of polyandria } and in the natural fyftem ranging under
the 37th order, Columniferce. See Botany Index.
SIDDEE,
S I D
[ 339 1
S I D
SIDDEE, or SEDEE, an Arabic title, by which the
Abyflinians or Habafhys are always diftinguilhed in the
courts of Hindoltan j where, being in great repute for
h mine Is and fidelity, they are generally employed as
commanders of forts or in polls of great truff.
SIDEREAL year. See Astronomy Index.
SIDERIA, in Natural Hi/iory, the old name of a genus
of crystals, ufed to exprefs thole altered in their figure
by particles of iron. Thefe are of a rhomboidal figure,
and compofed only of fix planes. Of this genus there
are four known fpecies. I. A colourlefs, pellucid, and
thin one j found in confiderable quantities among the
iron ores of the foreit of Dean in Glouceftertlure, and
in leveral other places. 2. A dull, thick, and brown
one ; not uncommon in the fame places with the for¬
mer. And, 3. A black and very gloffy kind, a Mil of
great beauty ; found in the fame place with the others,
as alfo in Leiceflerfhire and Suffex.
SIDERITE, a fubftance fuppofed by Meyer to be a
new metal ; but according to Bergman and Kirwan it
is nothing elfe than a natural combination of phofpho-
ric acid with iron.
SIDERITIS, Ironwort; a genus of plants belong¬
ing to the clafs of didynamia, and to the order of gym-
nofpermia ; and in the natural fyftem ranging under the
42d order Verticil later. See Botany Index.
SIDEROXYLON, Iron-wood j a genus of plants
belonging to the clafs of pentandria, and to the order of
monogynia; and in the natural fyifem ranging under
the 53d order, Dumofce. See Botany Index.
SIDNEY, Sir Philip, was bom, as is fuppofed, at
Penfhurfl in Kent in the year 1554: His father was
Sir Henry Sidney, an Irifh gentleman, and his mother
Mary the eldeft daughter of John Dudley duke of Nor¬
thumberland. He was fent when very young to Chrift-
church college at Oxford, but left the univerfity at 17
to fet out on his travels. After vifiting France, Ger¬
many, Hungary, and Italy, he returned to England in
1375, and was next year fent by Queen Elizabeth as
her ambaffador to Randolph emperor of Germany. On
his return he vifited Don John of Auftria, governor of
the Netherlands, by whom he was received with great
refpeft. In 1579, when Queen Elizabeth feemed on
the point of concluding her long projected marriage
with the duke of Anjou, Sir Philip wrote her a letter,
in which he diffuaded her from the match with unufual
elegance of expreffion, as well as force of reafoning.
About this time a quarrel with the earl of Oxford oc-
Cafioned his withdrawing from court ; during which re¬
tirement he is fuppofed to have written his celebrated
romance called Arcadia.
In 1 ^85, after the queen’s treaty with the United^
States, he was made governor of Fiufhing and mailer of
the borfe. Here he diitinguiihed himfelf fo much both
by his courage and conduft, that his reputation rofe to
the higheft pitch. He was named, it is pretended, by
the republic of Poland as one of the competitors ror that
crown, and might even have been elefted had^ it not
been for the interference of the queen. But his illultri-
ous career was foon terminated', for in 1586 he was
wounded at the battle of Zutphen, and carried to Arn-
heim, w'here be foon after died. His body was brought
to London, and buried in St Paul’s cathedral. He is
deferibed by the writers of that age as the moll perfect
model of an accotnplilhed gentleman that could be form¬
ed even by the wanton imagination of poetry or fic¬
tion. Virtuous conduct, polite converfation, heroic ya- *“
lour, and elegant erudition, all concurred to render him
the ornament and delight of the Englilh court : and as
the credit which he enjoyed with the queen I id tue
earl of Leicefter wras wholly employed in the encourage¬
ment of genius and literature, his praifeshave been trant-
mitted with advantage to poilerity. No perfon was fo
low as not to become an object of his humanity. After
the battle of Zutphen, while he was lying on the field
mangled with wounds, a bottle ol water was brought
him to relieve his third:; but obferving a foldier near
him in a like mifer able condition, belaid, I his man's
necejfity is JHllgreater than mine; and refigned to him
the bottle of water. Befides his Arcadia, he wrote fe-
veral fmaller pieces both in profe and verle, which have
been publilhed.
Sidney, Algernon, was the fecond fon of Robert
earl of Leiceder, and of Dorothy elded: daughter of the
earl of Northumberland. He was born about the year
1617. During the civil wars he took part againft the
king, and didinguidied himfelf as a colonel in the army
of the parliament. He was afterwards appointed one
of King Charles’s judges, but declined appearing in that
court. During the ufurpation of Cromwel, Sidneyr
who was a violent republican, retired to the country,
and fpent his lime in writing thofe difeourfes on govern¬
ment which have been fo defervedly celebrated. _ After
the death of the Proteftor, he again took part m the
public tranfadlions of his country, and was abroad on an
embaffy to Denmark when King Charles was relfored.
Upon this he retired to Hamburgh, and afterwards to
Francfort, where he rvlded till 1677, when he return¬
ed to England and obtained from the king a pardon.
It has been affirmed, but the fiory deferves no credit,
that during his refidence abroad King Charles hired ruf¬
fians to affaffinate him. After his return he made re¬
peated attempts to procure a feat in parliament, but all
of them proved unfuccefsful. A lter the intention of the
commons to feclude the duke of A ork from the throne
had been defeated by the hidden diflblution of parlia¬
ment, Sidney joined with eagernefs the councils of Ruf¬
fe], Effex, and Monmouth, who had refolved to oppofe
the duke’s fucceflion by force of arms. Frequent meet¬
ings were held at London j while, at tiic lame time, a
fet of fubordinate confpirators, who were not, however,
admitted into their confidence, met and embraced the
moft defperate refolutions. Keiling. one of thefe men,
difeovered the whole confpiracy ; and Algernon Sidney,
together with his noble ailociates, was immediately
thrown into prifon, and no art was left unattempted in
order to involve them in the guilt of the meaner confpi¬
rators. .
Howard, an abandoned nobleman, without a fmgie
fpark of virtue or honour, was the only witnefs agairut
Sidney 5 but as the law required two, his difeourfes on
government, found unpubliffied in his clofet, were con-
ftrued into treafon, and declared equivalent to another
witnefs. It was in vain for Sidney to plead that pa¬
pers were no legal evidence ”, that it could not be pro¬
ved they were written by him \ and that if they were,
they contained nothing treafonable. The defence was
overruled ; he was declared guilty, condemned, and ex-^
ecuted ! His attainder was reverfed in the firit year of
King William.
U u 2 He
Sidr
SID
Siunry He was a man of extraordinary courage j fteady even
SicV. t0 °bftinacy ; of a fmcere but rough and boiderous tem-
Per. _ Though he profefled his belief in the ChrilHan
religion, he was an enemy to an eltablilhed church, and
even, ac , 'rding to Burnet, to every kind of public wor-
ihip. in his principles he was a zealous republican :
government was always his favourite fludy ; and his ef-
lays on that fubjeft are a proof of the progrefs which
he made.
SIBON, in Ancient Geography, a city of Phoenicia
in Afia, famous in Scripture for its riches, arifmg from
the extenfive commerce carried on by its inhabitants.
Heavy judgements were denounced again ft the Sido-
nians on account of their wickednefs, which were ac-
complifhed in the time of Ochus king of Perfia : for
that monarch having come againft them with an army
on account of their rebellion, the city was betrayed by
its king ; upon which the wretched inhabitants were
feized with defpair ; they fet fire to their houfes, and
40,000, with their wives and children, perilhed in the
flames.
i his city is now called Saide, and, according to Mr
Bruce’s account, not only its harbour is filled up with
fand, but the pavement of the ancient city flood 7^ feet
lower than the ground on which the prefent city Hands.
Volney defcribes it as an ill-buiit dirty city. Its length
along the fea-fhore is about 600 paces, and its breadth
150. At the north-weft fide of the town is the caftle,
which is built in the fea itfelf, 80 paces from the main
land, to which it is joined by arches. To the weft of
this caftle is a fhoal 15 feet high above the fea, and
about 200 paces long. The fpace between this fhoal
and the caftle forms the road, but veflels are not fafe
there in bad weather. The ftroal, which extends along
the town, has a bafon inclofed by a decayed pier. This
was the ancient port 5 but it is fo choked up by fand,
that boats alone can enter its mou’h near the caftle.
lakr-el-din, emir of the Drufes, deftroyed all thefe lit¬
tle ports from Bailout to Acre, by finking boats and
•‘tones to prevent the lurkifh ftrips from entering them.
The bafon of Saide, if it were emptied, might contain
20 or 25 fmall veffels. On the fide of the fea, the town
is abfoJutely without any wall; and that which enclofes
it on the land fide is no better than a prifon-wall. The
whole artillery does not exceed fix cannons, and thefe
are without carriages and gunners. The garrifon fcarce-
ly amounts to 100 men. The water comes from the ri¬
ver Aoula, through open canals, from which it is fetch¬
ed by the women. 'Ihefe canals ferve alfo to water the
orchards of mulberry and lemon trees.
Saide is a confiderable trading town, and is the chief
emporium of Damafcus and the interior country. The
1‘rencb, who are the only Europeans to be found there,
have a conful, and five or fix commercial houfes. Their
exports conlift in iilks, and particularly in raw and fpun
cottons, Tl he manufacture of this cotton is the princi¬
pal air of the inhabitants, the number of whom may be
sftimated at about 5000. It is 45 miles weft fromDa-
mafcus. E. Long. 36. 5. N. Lat. 37.
01DUS Glorgium, in AJironomy, a new primary
planet, difcovered by Dr Herfchell in the year 1781.
By moft foreign, and even by fome Britifh philofophers,
it is known by the name of Herfchc/l, in honour of the
difco'verer. As the other planets are diftinguilhcd by
marks *>r characters, the planet Herfchell is diftinguilh-
[ 34° ]
S I E
ed by an H, the initial letter of the difcoverer’s name,
ee
and a crofs to Ihow that it is a Chriftian planet,
Astronomy Index.
SIEGE, in the art of war, is to furround a fortified
place with an army, and approach it by paffages made
in the ground, fo as to be covered againft the fire of the
place.
S1EGEN, a town of Germany in Wetteravia with
a caftle and the title of a principality, which it gives
to a branch of the houfe of Naffau. It is feated on a
river of the fame name, in E. Long. 8. 5. M. Lat
5°7 53-
SIENNA, a large, ancient, and celebrated city of
J. ufcany in Italy j capital of the Siennefe, with an
archbifhop’s fee, a famous univerfity, and a citadel. It
is. about four miles in circumference, and furrounded
with an old wall. The metropolitan church is much
efteemed by travellers; and though it is a Gothic ftruc-
ture, the architecture is admirable. It is built with
black and white marble, and the pavement is of moiaic
work. The town is adorned with a great number of
palaces, fountains, and fuperb churches, as alfo a mag¬
nificent hofpital. The great area is round, and the
houfes about it are of the fame height, fupported by
piazzas, under which people may walk in hot or rainy
weather; in the middle is a bafon, which can be filled
with water at any time, to reprelent a fea-fight with
fmall veffels. The Italian language is taught here with
fuch purily, that a great many foreigners frequent it on
that account. It is feated on three eminences, in a fer¬
tile foil, in E. Long. 11. 11. N. Lat. 43. 10.
SIENNESE, a duchy in Italy ; bounded on the
north by the Florentino, on the fouth by the Mediter¬
ranean fea and the duchy of Caftro, on the eaft by the
Perugino and Orvietano, and on the weft by the Flo¬
rentino and the Tufcan fea; being about 55 miles in
length, and as much in breadth. The foil is pretty fer¬
tile, efpecially in mulberry trees, which feed a great
number of filk-worms; and there are feveral mineral
fprings. Sienna is the capital town.
SIERRA LEONA, a large country on the weft coaft
of Africa, which fome extend from the Grain Coaft
on the fouth-eaft to Cape Verga or Vega on the north-
weft, i. e. between 70 and io° N. Lat. Others, how¬
ever, confine the country between Cape Verga and Cape
Tagrin. There runs through it a great river of the
fame name, of which the fource is unknown, but the
mouth is hi longitude 1 2. 30. vreft, lat. 8. 5. north, and
is nine miles wide. The climate and foil of this trad! of
country appear to be, on both fides of the river, among
the hslt in Africa, or at leaft the moft favourable to
European conftitutions. The heat is much the fame as
that of the Weft Indies; but on the higher grounds
there is a cool fea breeze, and in the mountainous parts
the air is very temperate. According to Lieutenant
Matthew-, “ Sierra Leona, if properly cleared and cul¬
tivated, would be equal in falubrity and fuperior in pro¬
duce to any of the iflands in the Weft Indiesand
others have affirmed, that “ the air is better for a man’s
health than in many places of Europe.” Thefe advan¬
tages of climate induced the Englilh to eftabliffi a fadlo-
ry at Sierra Leona ; but they chofe not the moft health¬
ful fituation. For the benefit of a fpring of good w-ater
they fixed their refidence in a low valley, which is often
overfpread with rnifts and noifome vapours, while the
. 11
Sierra.
S 1 E { 341 1 S I E
Sierra. air clear and ferene on the {umraits of the hills, to
v   which water from the well might be eafily carried.
Within the diftried occupied by this colony are the
Foulahs, who are in general of a tawny complexion,
though many of them are entirely black. They lead a
wandering life, and roam about the country with large
droves of cows, fheep, goats, and horfes. They are
much praifed by travellers for their hofpitality ; nor is
their humanity in other refpedts, lels commendable ; for,
if one of their countrymen have the misfortune to fall
into flavery, the red join dock to redeem him. Ele¬
phants are fo numerous in the country of the Foulahs,
that they are frequently feen in droves of 2co together.
The people are very dexterous at hunting them, and
other wild beads ; from which they derive their princi¬
pal articles of trade.
The animal produflions of Sierra Leona are lions,
from wdiich it has its name ; leopards, hyaenas, mufk
cats, and many kinds of weafels ; the japanzee or chim¬
panzee, a fpecies of fimia, which has a dill more dri-
king refemblance to the human figure than even the
ouran outang ; porcupines, wild hogs, fquirrels, and
antelopes. Befides thefe, which are natives of the
country, oxen thrive in it, and even grow fat 5 afles
too are employed in labour, and do not fuffer by the
climate 5 but iheep fuffer much from the heat, change
their wool into hair, grow lean and increafe very little ;
while the hardy goat is here as prolific and large as in
any other country. Of the birds which frequent the
woods of Sierra Leona we can give no perfect account.
A fpecies of crane is mentioned as eafily tamed ; com¬
mon poultry multiply fad j ducks thrive well, but geefe
and turkeys feem not to agree with the climate. Tur¬
tles of all kinds are very common, and fometimes of a
large fize. Crocodiles or alligators of a non-defeript
fpecies have been found ten or twelve feet in length, and
lizards of fix different fpecies. Snakes, which are al-
mod innumerable, haunt the houfes in the night in
fearch of poultry •, and one was obferved which mea-
fured 18 feet, but wras happily found not to be venom¬
ous. Fillies are in great variety both in the fea and in
the rivers. Befides the whale, the (hark, dinging ray,
and porpoife, there are eels, horfe-mackarel, tarpoons,
cavillo«, mullets, fnappers, yellow-tails, old-maids, ten-
pounders, and fome other fillies ; all of which, except
the eels and ten-pounders, are edeemed fine eating. Oy-
ders are found in great abundance, and another diell-
fhh, which the natives eat. Among the zoophytes,
none is more worthy of notice than the common fponge,
which covers all the fandy beaches of the river, parti¬
cularly on the Bullom fhore, and would fetch a high
price in Great Britam.
Of the numerous vegetable productions of Sierra
Leona, our limits will permit us only to mention the
following. Rice, which is the plant chiefly cultivated,
as the natives fubflfl almod entirely upon it, grows both
in the high and low grounds. It profpers indeed bed
in fvvamps, though the grain is better in a drier foil.
Next to rice the caffada conllitutes the chief food of the
inhabitants, and is cultivated with great care. The
country likewife produces yams, various kinds of po¬
tatoes, eddoes, or the arum efculentum. Oil-palm, plan¬
tains, and bananas; papaw, guava, oranges and limes j
pompions, melons, and cucumbers ; pine-apples, pigeon-
peas, which dreffed like Englifli peas are a good pulfe j
maize or Indian-corn \ millet, cocoa-nut trees \ ockra $
the talknv-tree ; a great variety of tamarinds} different
kinds of fig-trees and plums 5 a kind of Iruit refembiing
grapes, but more acid and acrid j cherries refembiing a
fine neClarine in tade ; a fpecies of the bread fruit-tree ;
the cream fruit, fo called becaufe when wounded it
yields a fine white juice refembiing fugar or the bed
milk, of which the natives are very fond j the mala-
guetta pepper, or grains of paradife ; a new fpecies of
nutmeg, but whether fo good as the common fort has
not yet been afeertained ; a new fpecies of the Peruvian
bark, which it is hoped will prove as ufeful as the otherj
and cola, a fruit highly edeemed by the natives for the
fame virtues with that bark •, the ricinus, cadia, dye-
duffs, and gums, of great value ; cotton, tobacco, and
fugar-canes, which, it is thought, would thrive exceed¬
ingly well under proper cultivation.
Confidering the ardour of the maritime nations of Eu¬
rope for fettling colonies in didant regions of the globe,
it is fomewhat furprifing that a climate fo temperate
and a foil fo produdflive as that of Sierra Leona did not
long ago attract their notice. But it was left to be co¬
lonized for a better purpofe than that which fird drew
the natives of Europe to the Wed Indies and the Ame¬
rican continent. Being thinly inhabited, Sierra Leona
appeared to fome benevolent gentlemen in England a
place where, without incommoding the natives, a iuffi-
cient quantity of ground might be bought on which to
fettle a great number of free negroes, who in 17S6
fwarmed in London in idlenefs and want. About 400
of thefe wretches, together with 60 whites, modly wo¬
men of bad charadfler and in ill health, were accordingly
fent out, at the charge of government, to Sierra Leona.
Neceflity, it was hoped, would make them indudiious
and orderly *, and Captain Thomfon of the navy, who
conduced them, obtained, for their ufe, a grant of-fend
to his majedy from King Tom, the neighbouring chief,
and afterwards from Naimbanna, the king of the coun¬
try. The colony, however, foon went to ruin 5 but the
land which they occupied, being about 20 miles fquare,
his majedy was enabled to grant by a£t of parliament
to another colony founded on better principles and for
a dill nobler purpofe.
The mod intelligent members of that fociety, which
laboured fo drenuoudy to procure an abolition of the
dave-trade, judly concluding that the natives of Guinea
would reap very little benefit from the attainment of
their objeff, unlefs they flmuld be.taught the principles
of religion and the arts of civil life, which alone can
render them really free, conceived the plan of a colony
at Sierra Leona to be fettled for the truly generous pur¬
pofe of civilizing the Africans by maintaining with
them a friendly intercourfe, and a commerce in every
thing but men. This plan could not be carried into
effeft but at a very great expence. Subfcriptions were
therefore opened upon rational and equitable terms, and
a dim deemed fufficient was fpeedily raifed. An aiff of
parliament was paffed in favour of the fubferibers, by
which they were incorporated by the denomination of
the Sierra Leona Company; and in purfuance of that
a£I they held their fird meeting at London in 0£tober
jyp1-
The direflors having dated the natural advantages
of Sieira Leona, and its prelent miferable condition,
obierved, that they had not merely to edablifh a com-
merciali
S I E [ 34
mercial factory, but that, to introduce civilization, cul¬
tivation, and a fafe trade, the company muft provide
for the fecurity of the perfons and property of the co-
lonilts. The diredtors therefore refolved, that three or
four veflels fhould fail at once, with fuch a number of
people as would be able to protedt and affift each other;
with goods both for trade and for the fupply of the co¬
lony. Accordingly feveral veffels failed, having on
board a council for the government of the colony and
the management of the company’s affairs; a number of
artificers and other fervants of the company ; fome fol-
diers, and a very few Englidi fettlers. The diredlors
were laudably cautious in the choice of colonifls. They
admitted into the fociety no wdiite man of bad charac¬
ter, or who was not a declared enemy to the Have-trade;
and as the chief objedl of their enterprife was the civili¬
zation of the natives, it was with great propriety that
they chafe more than three-fourths of their fettlers from
the free negroes in Nova Scotia, who had borne arms
for the Britifh government during the American war.
The fuperintendant and council were particularly in-
flrufted to fecure to all blacks and people of colour, at
Sierra Leona, equal rights and equal treatment, in all
refpedls, with whites. They were to be tried by jury,
as well as others; and the council was delired to allot to
the blacks employments fuited to their prefent abilities,
and to afford them every opportunity of cultivating their
talents. All praflicable means of maintaining fubordi-
nation were directed to be ufed ; and the council wras
«efpecially inftrufted to promote religion and morals, by
fupporting public worfhip and the due obfervance of
the Sabbath, and by the inffruffion of the people, and
the education of children. But no perfon was to be
prevented from performing or attending religious wor¬
fhip in whatever place, time, or manner, he might think
fit, ar from peaceably inculcating his own religious opi¬
nions. Orders were given in choofing the fcite of a
town, to confider health as the firft objeff ; and the
firft town was diredled to be ca\\c& Free-To%vn. Arti¬
cles for building and cultivation were fent out, befidts
the cargoes for profecuting the company’s commerce ;
and fchools for reading, writing, and accounts, were
ordered to be fet up for the purpofe of inflrudfing the
children of fuch natives as fhould be willing to put them
under the company’s care.
The leading objeft of the company was to fubftitnte,
for that difgraceful traffic which has too long fubfifled,
a fair commerce with Africa, and all the bleflings which
might be expelled to attend it. Confiderable advan¬
tages appeared hereby likely to refult to Great Britain,
not only from our obtaining feveral commodities cheap¬
er, but alfo for opening a market for Britifh manu-
faflures, to the increafing demands of which it is diffi¬
cult to affign a limit. From this connexion, Africa
was likely to derive the ftill more important benefits of
religion, morality, and civilization. To accomplifh
thefe purpofes, it was neceffary for the company to
"poffefs a traft of land, as a repofitory for their goods,
and which the Africans might cultivate in peace, fecure
from the ravages of the Have-trade. It had been afcer-
tained, beyond a doubt, that the climate aud foil of
Africa were admirably fuited to the growth of fugar,
fpices, coffee, cotton, indigo, rice, and every other fpe-
cies of tropical produce. The company propofed to
.*nftru£t the natives to raife thefe articles, and to fet them
2
i } S I E
the example, by a fpirited cultivation, on its own ac¬
count. Dire&ions were given to the company’s com¬
mercial agent to puflr forward a trade, in a mode pte-
feribed,, in the prefent produce of Africa. Meafures
were taken for cultivating, on the company’s account,
the moil profitable tropical produce ; and in particular,
a peifon of long experience in the Weft Indies was or¬
dered to begin a fugar plantation. A mineralogift and
botanift were likevvife engaged to go out and explore
the country for new articles of commerce.
Every thing being thus fettled upon the moft equita¬
ble and benevolent principles, the fhips failed with the
Britifti colonifts, to whom, in March 1792, were added
1131 blacks from Nova Scotia. The native chiefs be¬
ing reconciled to the plan, and made to underftand its
beneficent tendency towards their people, the colony
proceeded to build Free-Town, on a dry and rather ele¬
vated fpot on the foulh fide of the river. It occupied
between 70 and 80 acres, its length being about one-
third of a mile, and its breadth nearly the fame ; and it
contained near 400 houfes, each having one-twelfth of
an acre annexed, on which a few vegetables were raifed.
There were nine ftreets running from north-weft to fouth-
eaft, and three crofs ftreets, all 80 feet wide, except one
of 160 feet, in the middle of w'hich were all the public
buildings. Thefe ccnfifted of a governor’s houfe and
offices ; a large ftore-houfe ; a large hofpital; fix or
eight other houfes, offices, and ffiops, occupied by the
company’s fervants ; and a church capable of contain¬
ing 800 people. The colonifts at firft fuffered much
from the rainy feafon. againft which it was not in their
power to provide fufficient protection ; but at the end
of it they recovered in a great meafure their health and
fpirits, and proceeded with, alacrity to execute the va¬
rious purpofes of their fettlement. To excite emulation
in culture, the government gave prem’ums to thofe co¬
lonifts who raifed the greateft quantities of rice, yams,
eddoes, cabbages, Indian corn, and cotton, refpeCHvely.
To limit the exceffes of the Have-trade, and gain the
favour of the neighbouring chiefs, the direclors inftrucl-
ed the governor and council to redeem any native from
the neighbourhood, -who ffiould be unjuHly fold either
to or by a Britiffi fubjeCl. The fervants of the compa¬
ny conduced themfelves with the utmoft propriety, be¬
ing fober, moral, and exemplary •, and from the labours
of the clergymen were derived ieiv'Ces highly important
in every point of view. Before the end of two years
from the inftitution of the colony, order and induftry
had begun to (how their effeCts in an increafing prefpe-
rity. The woods had been cut down to the diftance of
about three Engliffi miles all round the town. By thefe
means the climate had become healthier, and fickrefs
bad diminiffied. The fame of the colony fpresd net
only along the whole weftern coaft of Africa, but alfo to
parts far diftant from the coaft ; embafiies had been re¬
ceived of the moft friendly nature from kings and prin¬
ces feveral hundred miles diftant ; and the native chiefs
had begun to fend their children to the colony, with
full confidence, to he taught reading, writing, and ac¬
counts, and to be brought up in the Chriftian religion.
In a word, it -was not without grounds that the direc¬
tors looked fonvard to that joyful period when, by the
influence of the company’s meafures, the continent of
Africa ffiould be refeued from her prefent Hate of dark-
nefs and mifery, and exhibit a delightful feene of light
and
Sierra.
s I E [ 343 ]
and 'knowledge of cxvllizaticn and order, of peaceful They '
Wadjfroni,
partJi.
p. 28c.
induitry and domeftic comfort. On their beneficent
exertions they hoped with confidence for the blefling of
Providence } they were countenanced and fupported by
the Britiih government) and upon the breaking out of
the prefent war, the French Convention authoriled one
of their agents to write to the directors, requefting a
full account of the defign of the inftitution, and the
names of the fhips employed in their lervice, and allu¬
ring them of the good willies of the French government
to lb noble an undertaking. Ho tv completely that
government fulfilled its promife is very generally known.
Having vindicated the rights of man in Europe by the
violation of every principle of truth and jultice, they de¬
termined by the fame means to give light and liberty to
the Africans; and that they have fully carried their de¬
termination into effofl will be feen by the following ex¬
tract of a letter from Mr A’zelius, the company’s bota-
nitl, dated Sierra Leona, 15th November 1794- “ The
French have been here and have ruined us. They ar¬
rived on the 28th of September lall, early in the morn¬
ing, with a fleet confifling of one large Ihip, two fri¬
gates, two armed brigs, and one cutter, together with
two large armed merchant fhips, taken by them at the
I lies dc Lofs, an Englilli Have fa&ory to the north of
cur colony, and which they have alfo deftroyed and
burnt. So well had they concealed their nation, that
we took them at firft for Engliih. They had Englifh-
bmlt veflels, which w’ere rigged in the Englilh way.
They fhowed the Engliih flag, and had their failors, at
h ad thole we favv on deck, dreffed like Englifti. In fliort,
w7e did not perceive our miltake till we oblerved them
pointing their guns. We had not ftrength fufficient to
refill, and therefore cur governor gave orders, that as
foon as they (hould begin to fire, the Britiih flag Ihould
be flruck, and a flag of truce hoiiled. Accordingly
this was done, but ftill they continued firing, and did
much damage, both within and without the town.
They killed two people and wounded three or four. But
as we did not underftand the meaning of this proceed¬
ing, we allied them for an explanation ) and they an-
fwered us, that we Ihould difplay the flag of liberty, as a
proof of our fubmiflion. We allured them that it
ihould already have been done, if we had had any,
which terminated the hofiilities from the fhips. In the
mean time, moll of the inhabitants had fled from the
town, having taken with them as much of their pro¬
perty as they conveniently could in fuch a hurry. I
was with the governor, together with a number of o-
thers ; but as loon as I was certain they were enemies,
I went towards my own houfe with a view- to fave as
much as poflible of my property and natural colleflionsj
but was received in fuch a manner, that I could not ven¬
ture to proceed. My houfe was lituated near the fliore,
and unfortunately jufl oppofite the frigate which fired.
I faw the balls palling through the houfe, and heard
them whizzing about my ears. I faw that I Ihould
lofe all ray property; but life was dearer to me, and I
haftened to the w’oods. t
“ In the afternoon the enemy landed, finding the town
almoft deflitute of people, but rich in provifions, cloth¬
ing and other ftores. They began immediately to break
open the houfes and to plunder. What they did not
".ant, they deftroyed, burnt, or threw into the river.
S I E
illed all the cattle and animals they found in the
fields or ftreets, yards or elfewbere, not fparing even '*
affes, dogs, and cats. Thefe proceedings they conti¬
nued the whole fucceeding week, till they had entirely
ruined our beautiful and profpering colony 5 and when
they found nothing more worth plundering, they fet
fire to the public buildings and all the houfes belong¬
ing to the Europeans; and burnt, as they laid, by mif-
take nine or ten houfes of the colonifts. In the mean
time, they were not lefs aftive on the water. They
fent three of their veffels to Bance ifland, an Englilh
Have fadlory higher up the river, which they plundered
and burnt, together with fome Have fliips lying there.
They took belides about 10 or 12 prizes, including
the company’s ^efiels. Molt of thefe they unloaded
and burnt. They took along with them alfo two of
our armed veffels, one of which was a large Hup, laden
with provifions, and which had been long expelled j
but fhe unfortunately arrived a few days too fcon, and
was taken with her whole cargo. We expecled at lead
to receive our private letters, but even this was refufed,
and they were thrown bverbeard. At lall, after in-
flidling on us every hardlhip we could fuffer, Only fpa¬
ring our lives and the houfes of the colonills, they failed
on the 13th ot Oclober lall, at noon, proceeding down¬
wards to the Gold Coall, and left us in the molt dread¬
ful fituation, without provifions, medicines, clothes,
houfes, or furniture, &c. &c. and I fear much, that moft
of us Ihould have perilhed, had not our friends in the
neighbourhood, both natives and Europeans, who were
fo happy as to efcape the enemy, been fo kind as to
fend us what they could {pare. In the mean time, moft
of us have either been, or Hill are, very lick, and many
have died for want of proper food and medicine. The
worll, however, is now pall. At leall we are not in
any w7ant of provifion, although of the coarfell kind,
but are ddlitute of the moll neceffary articles and uten-
fds for the houfe, the table, and the kitchen.”
It was thus that the Convention executed their pur-
pole offf> re tiding light and liberty through the world. The
Sierra Leona colony was ellablilhed for no other end
than to abolilh the flave-trade, to enlighten the Afri¬
cans, and to render them virtuous, rational, free, and
happy ; and thofe powerful patrons of the rights of
man deftroyed that colony with many circumllances of
the moft wanton cruelty. Though Mr Afzelius is a
Swede, and ought therefore to have been protefled by
the law's of neutrality, they burnt his houfe with the
rell 5 deprived him of his trunks, his clothes, and his
bed ) deltroyed the natural curiofities which he had col¬
lected at the hazard of his life ; and carried away the
inllruments by means of which only he could collecl
more.
In 1798, Free-Town, confilled of about 300 lioufes,
and a number of public buildings, together with three
wharfs. The government-houfe, fo fituated as to com¬
mand the town and harbour, was protefled by a pali-
fade, and fix pieces of cannon. The inhabitants of this
colony -were then computed at 1200, of whom 15 were
Ihopkeepers, 25 filhermen, 10 trading Ihipmafters, owners
of fmall veffels, 15 feamen, 20 labourers employed by the
company, 4 fchoclmallers ; about one half of the whole
population petty farmers, and the reft mechanics. The
number of Europeans refident at that time in the colony-
Sierva.
S I E r 344 ] S I F
Sirm, ■was akbut 30, and nearly 400 free natives wrought as
““’V11 labourers ior wages, on the farms in the colony.
A charter of juftice was obtained in 1800, to controul
the turbulence of the blacks from Nova Scotia, and a
fmall military force from Goree was llationed at Sierra
Leona. Parliament allowed the company 7000!. for the
purpoie of erecting a fort, with a promile of 8000I. more
for the fame undertaking. The company alfo received
10,000!. for their expence in fettling the blacks from
Nova Scotia, and a vote of parliament agreed to pay
4000I. for fupporting the civil government of the co¬
lony.
The Maroons arrived in Sierra Leona in the month
of October 1800, and greatly aflbted in fuppreffing an
infurreftion of the Nova Scotia blacks, who had at¬
tempted to feize on the government of the colony. A
body of natives of the Timmaney, headed by two of the
fugitive blacks, made an attack on the unfinifhed fort
on the 18th of November, about day-break, but they
were repulfed with lofs. A truce was concluded ; but
it was fuppofed that the Timmanee chiefs would make
vtfe of this interval to form alliances with the natives a-
gainft the Britilh, in order to exterminate them from
this part of Africa. Soldiers to the amount of 65 were
brought from Goree, and a (hip of W7ar wras ftationed in
the river, to defend the fettlement.
In 1802, parliament again voted 10,005!. to the com¬
pany, for the annual expence of the fettlement •, and in
February 1803, the direftors were informed by Lord
Hobart, that it would be for the intereft of the colony to
transfer the civil and military power from the company
to the Britilh government.
When Captain Hallowell arrived at Sierra Leona on
the 12th of January 1803, he found the colony in a
wretched condition, reporting to government on his re¬
turn, that the Maroons were not fatisfied with their con¬
dition, regarding it as one in which they could not find
fubfiltence ; that provilions of every defeription w7ere
both fcarce and dear ; that its inhabitants lived in hourly
danger from the natives 5 and that the whole colonifts
lived in a date of defpondency. Government, however,
was afterwards fatisfied, from the explanations of the di¬
rectors and their fervants, that the account of Captain
Hallowell was by much too unfavourable. Expectations
are indulged that, fince the entire abolition of the Have-
trade, the colony will foon obtain a flourilhing trade
with the natives, in the exchange of Britilh manufac¬
tures for the raw produce of the, interior parts of A-
frica.
A committee of the houfe of commons has had a molt
fatisfaCtory proof of the progreffive improvement of the
internal adminiltration of the colony, arifing from the
additional powers conferred on the company by the
charter of jultice, and the increafed vigilance and exer¬
tion of the Company’s fervants. The Maroons have, in
a great meafure, abandoned fome pernicious habits they
had long indulged, and by their attachment to the co¬
lony, and peaceable demeanour, have merited the ap¬
probation of government. The progrefs made in the
ereClion of works has been confiderable, and the colony
may be regarded in a Hate of fufficient fecurity againft
the attack of any native porver. A body of volunteers
has been raifed within the colony, whofe fidelity and at¬
tachment have been tried by experience. The ficknefs
and mortality which for fome time exifted, have ;n a great
1
Si-Fan.,
degree fubfided ; and there is reafon to believe, that it Sierra
rather originated with the troops when they entered the
colony, and their habits of intemperance, than from any
diforder connefted with their relidence in that fituation. v
The number of births, which has for fome time exceed¬
ed that of the deaths in the colony, is a fatisfadlory proof
that it is not unfriendly to population.
Sierra Leona is already rendered fecure againll the
only enemies w’hofe hollilities it has immediately to ap¬
prehend •, its refources are increafed ; its cultivation re¬
viving •, and it is in the polfeffion of every advantage
that can arife from the enjoyment of internal tranquil¬
lity and order. It is (ufficiently manifeil, from the in¬
conveniences already experienced in the colony, that
during its continuance, it will be effentially neceffary to
fupport a local government capable of maintaining
order among its inhabitants, and affording them pro-
teftion. The expence of the civil eitabliihment for
fome years to come cannot be eflimated at leb than
lOjOCol. per annum that of completing the prop olid * The ex*
works has been eflimated at 8000I. It alfo appears that/><“?m<? of
the defence of the colony will require the prefent volun-
teer force to be permanently kept up, the expence
which has been eflimated at 4CO0I. per annum ; or if, sG.j ix-
that eftablilhment fhould be difeontinued, a regular reeded
rifon muft be maintained at the conflant eftablilhment of I7»QOQ*‘
100 effeflive men, exclufive of about 20 artillery men,
which, confidering the numerous cafualties in that cli¬
mate, and great expence of fupporting them, would ex¬
ceed the fum already mentioned.
SIERRA morena, a confiderable ridge of mountains
of Andalufia in Spain. See Spain.
SIEUR, a title of refpett among the French, like
that of tnajler among us. It is much ufed by lawyers,
as alfo by fuperiors in their letters to inferiors.
SIFANTO, or Siphanto, an ifland of the Archi¬
pelago, to the w^eft of Paros, to the north-eaft of
Milo, and to the fouth-weft of Serphanto. The air is
fo good here, that many of the inhabitants live to the
age of 120 j and their water, fruits, wild fowl, and
poultry, are excellent, but more efpecially the grapes.
It abounds writh marble and granite, and is one of the
moft fertile and beft cultivated of thefe ifiands. The
inhabitants employ themfelves in cultivating olive-trees
and capers; and they have very good filk. They trade
in figs, onions, wax, honey, and ftraw-hats \ and may
be about 8000 in all. E. Long. 25. 15. N. Lat.
it' y*
SI-FANS, or Tou-fans, a people inhabiting the Grofer’s
Country on the w'eft of China.. Their country is only General
a continued ridge of mountains, inclofed by the rivers Tdefcripthti
Hoang-ho on the north, Ya-long on the weft, and°^ma’
Yang-tfe-kiang on the eaft, between the 30th and 35*^1). 203.
degrees of north latitude.
The Si-fans are divided into two kinds of people;
the one are called by the Chinefe Black Si-fans, the
other Yellow; names wEich are given them from the
different colours of their tents. The blac k are the moft
clownifti and wretched ; they live in fmall bodies, and
are governed by petty chiefs, who all depend upon a
greater.
The yellow Si-fans are fubjeft to families, the oldeft;
of which becomes a lama, and affumes the yellow drtfs.
Thefe lama princes, who command in their refpedhve
diftri&s, have the power of trying caufes, and punilh-
ing
S I G [ 345 ] S I G
Si-fans ing criminals } but their government is by no means
II burdenfome j provided certain honours are paid them,
S^ht‘ . and they receive punftually the dues of the god lo,
v which amount to very little, they moleft none of their
fubjects. The greater part of the Si-fans live in tents 5
but lome of them have houfes built of earth, and even
brick. Their habitations are not contiguous j they
form at moft but fome fmall hamlets, confifting of five
or fix families. They feed a great number of flocks,
and are in no want of any of the neceflaries of life. The
principal article of their trade is rhuoarb, ivhich their
country produces in great abundance. Their horles
are fmall; but they are well fhaped, lively and robuft.
Thefe people are of a proud and independent ipirit,
and acknowledge with relu&ance the fuperiority of the
Chinefe government, to which they have been fubjeft-
ed : when they are fummoned by the mandarins, they
rarely appear ; but the government, for political reafons,
winks at this contempt, and endeavours to keep thefe
intra&able fubje&s under by mildnefs and moderation :
it would, befides, be difficult to employ rigorous means
in order to reduce them to perfect obedience } their
wild and frightful mountains (the tops of which are al¬
ways covered with fnow, even in the month of July)
would afford them places of (belter, from which they
could never be driven by force.
The cuftoms of thefe mountaineers are totally diffe¬
rent from thofe of the Chinefe. It is, for example, an
aft of great politenefs among them to prefent a white
handkerchief of taffety or linen, when Urey accoft any
perfon whom they are defirous of honouring. AU their
religion confifls in their adoration of the god ho, to
whom tney have a fingular attachment } their fiiperfli-
tious veneration extends even to his minifters, on whom
they have confidered it as their duty to confer fupreme
power and the government of the nation.
SIG AULTIAN operation, a method of delivery
in cafes of difficult labour, firff praftifed by M. Sigault.
It confifts in enlarging the dimenfions of the pelvis, in
order to procure a fafe paffage to the child without in¬
juring the mother.
SIGESBECKIA, a genus of plants belonging to the
clafs of fyngenefia, and to the order of polygamia fuper-
flua *, and in the natural fyftem ranging under the 49th
order, CompofiUe. See Botany Index.
SIGETH, a town of Lower Hungary, and capital
of a county of the fame name. It is feated in a morafs,
and has a triple wall, with ditches full of water ; and
is defended by a citadel, being one of the (trongeff pla¬
ces in Hungary. It now belongs to the houfe ot Au-
ffria, and was retaken from the 1 urks in 1669, after it
had been blocked up two years. In lome maps it is
called Zigat. E. Long. 18. 58. N. Lat. 46. 17.
SIGHING, an effort of nature, by w-hich the lungs
are put into greater morion, and more dilated, fo that
the blood paffes more freely, and in greater quantity,
to the left auricle, and thence to the ventricle. Hence
we learn, fays Dr Hales, how fighing increases the
force of the blood, and confequently propomonably
cheers and relieves nature, when oppreffed by its too
flow' motion, which is the cafe of thofe who are deje&ed
and fad.
SIGHT, or Vision. See Anatomy, N° 142. and
Index fubjoined to Optics.
Vol. XIX. Parti.
ImperfcBion of SIGHT with regard to Colours. Under Sight
the article Colours, is given an inftance of a ftrange Na'|ai
deficiency of fight in fome people, who could not diftin- Signals>
guifh between the different colours. In the Phil. Tranf.
vol. Ixviii. p. 611. vve have an account of a gentleman
who could not diftinguifli a claret colour from black.
Thefe imperfedlions are totally unaccountable from
any thing we yet know concerning the nature of this
fenfe.
Second SIGHT. See SECOND Sight.
SIGN, in general, the mark or character of fome-
thing abfent or invifible. See Character.
Among phylicians, the term Jign denotes fome ap¬
pearance in the human body which fcrves to indicate or
point out the condition of the patient with regard to
health or difeafe.
Sign, in Algebra. See iVLGEBRA.
Sign, in /IJlrononnj, a confidilation containing a I2th
part of the zodiac. See Astronomy Index.
Naval SIGNALS. When we read at our fire-
fide the account of an engagement, or other interefling
operation of an army, our attention is generally fo much
engaged by the refults, that we give but little to the
movements which led to them, and produced them.-, and
we feldom form to ourfelves any diffinfl notion of the
conduit of the day. But a profeffional man, or one ac-
cuftomed to refleition, and who is not fatisfied with the
mere indulgence of eager curiofity, follow's every regi¬
ment in its movements, endeavours to fee their connec¬
tion, and the influence which they have had on the fate
of the day, and even to form to himfelf a general notion
of the whole fcene of aition, at its different interefting
periods. He looks with the eye of the general, and fees
his orders fucceed or fail.
But few trouble themfelves farther about the narra¬
tion. The movement is ordered ; it is performed ; and
the fortune of the day is determined. Few think how
all this is brought about ; and when they are told that
during the -whole of the battle of Cufliin, Frederic the
Great wras in the upper room of a country inn, from
whence he could view the whole field, while his aids
de camp, on horfeback, waited his orders in the yard
below, they are ilruck with wonder, and can hardly
conceive how it can be done : but, on refledlion, they
fee the poffibility of the thing. Their imagination ac¬
companies the meffenger from the inn yard to the fcene
of action \ they hear the general’s orders delivered,
and they expeft its execution.
But when we think for a moment on the fituation
of the commander of a fleet, confined on board one
(hip, and this (hip as much, or more clofely, engaged,
than any other of the fleet ; and when we reficcff that
here are no meffengers ready to carry his orders to
(hips of the fquadron at the diffance of miles from him,
and to deliver them with precifion and diftinflnefs, and
that even if this were poffible by fending fmall (hips or
boats, the viciffitudes of wind and weather may render
the communication fo tedious that the favourable mo¬
ment may be irretrievably loft before the order can be
conveyed.—When we think of all thefe circumftances,
our thoughts aie bewildered, and we are ready to ima¬
gine that a fea battle is nothing but the unconnefled
ftruggle of individual drips j and that when the admiral
has once “ cried havoc, and let flip the dogs of war,’1
X x he
Signals »
iangnage
to the eye.
Tired in
ancient
times.
S I C c 34-6
he has done all that his fituation empowers him to do,
and he muft leave the fate of the day to the bravery and
Ik ill of his captains and failors.
Yet it is in this fituation, apparently the mofi: unfa¬
vourable, that the orders of the commander can be
conveyed, with a difpatch that is not attainable in the
operations of a land army. The feene of aflion is un¬
incumbered, fo that the eye of the general can behold
the whole without interruption. The movements which
it is poflible to execute are few, and they are precife.
A few words are fufficient to order them, and then
the mere fighting the (hips muft always be left to their
refpeftive commanders. This fimplicity in the duty to
be performed has enabled us to frame a language fully
adequate to the bufinefs in hand, by which a correfpon-
dence can be kept up as far as the eye can fee. This is
the language of signals, a language by writing, addref-
fed to the eye, and which he that runneth may read. As
in common writing certain arbitrary marks are agreed
on to exprefs certain founds ufed in fpeech, or rather,
as in hieroglyphics certain arbitrary marks are agreed
on to exprefs certain thoughts, or the fubjefls of thefe
thoughts 5 fo here certain exhibitions are made, which
are agreed on to exprefs certain movements to be exe¬
cuted by the commander to whom they are addrefied,
and all are enjoined to keep their eyes fixed on the {hip
of the conductor of the fleet, that they may learn his
will.
It is fcarcely poffible for any number of fhips to aft
in concert, without fome fuch mode of communication
between the general and the commanders of private
{hips. We have no direft information of this cir-
cumflantfe in the naval taftics ©f the ancient nations,
the Greeks and Romans ; yet. the neceflity of the thing
is fo apparent, that we cannot fuppofe it to have been
omitted by the mofl: ingenious and the mofl cultivated
people who have appeared on the great theatre of the
world : and we are perfuaded that Themiftocles, Conon,
and other renowned fea commanders of Athens, had
fignals by which they direfted the movements of their
fleets. We read, that when iEgeus fent his fon Thefeus
to Crete, it was agreed on, that if the (hip fhould bring
the young prince back in fafety, a white flag fhould be
difplayed. But thofe on board, in their joy for revifit-
ing their country after their perilous voyage, forgot to
hoifl: the concerted fignal. The anxious father was every
day expefting the fliip which fliould bring back his
darling fon, and had gone to the fhore to look out for
her. He faw her, but without the fignal agreed on.
On which the old man threw’ himfelf into the fea. We
find, too, in the hiftory of the Punic wars by Poly¬
bius, frequent allufions to fuch a mode of communica¬
tion ; and Ammianus Marcellinus fpeaks of the fpecu-
latores and vexiilarii, who were on board the fliips
in the Adriatic. The coins both of Greece and Rome
exhibit both flags and ftreamers. In fliort, we cannot
doubt of the ancients having praftifed this hieroglyphi-
cal language. It is fomewhat furprifing that Lord Dud¬
ley, in his Arcano del Mare, in which he makes an of-
tentatious difplay of his knowledge of every thing con¬
nected with the fea fervice, makes no exprefs mention
of this very effential piece of knowledge, although he
mufl, by his long refidence in Italy, have known the
marine difeipline of the Venetians and Genoefe, the
greatefl; maritime powers then in Europe.
] S I G
In the naval occurrences of modern Europe, men- Naval
lion is frequently made of fignals. Indeed, as we have Slg“Hls.
already cbferved, it feems impoflible for a number of' v
{hips to aft in any kind of concert, without fome me-asw(f,las
thod of communication. Numberlefs fituations muft in modern ;
occur, when it would be impoflible to convey orders or
information by meffengers from one fliip to another,
and coaft and alarm fignals had long been praftifed by
every nation. The idea, therefore, was familiar. We
find, in particular, that Queen Elizabeth, on occafion
of the expedition to Cadiz, ordered her fecretaries to
draw up inftruftions, which were to be communicated
to the admiral, the general, and the five counfellors of
war, and by them to be copied and tvanfmitted to the
feveral fiiips of the navy, not to be opened till they
fliould arrive in a certain latitude. It was on this oc¬
cafion (fays our hiftorian Guthrie,) “ that we meet
with the firft regular fets of fignals and orders to the
commanders of the Englifh fleet.” But, till the move¬
ments of a fleet have attained fome fort of uniformity,
regulated awl connefted by fome principles of proprie¬
ty, and agreed on by perlbns in the habit of direfting a
number of fliips, we may with confidence affirm that
fignals would be nothing bwt a parcel of arbitrary
marks, appropriated to particular pieces of naval fer¬
vice, fuch as attacking the enemy, landing the foldiers,
&c. ; and that they would be confidered merely as re¬
ferring to the final refult, but by no means pointing out
the mode of execution, or direfting the movements
which were neceflary for performing it. ^
It was James II. when duke of York, who firft but fi’ft
confidered this praftice as capable of being reduced intotoimecl in-
a fyftem, and who faw the importance of fiich a com- to a
pofition. He, as well as the king his brother, had al- Ivlien^hik-"
ways {bowed a great predileftion for the fea fervice ; of York,
and, when appointed admiral of England, he turned
his whole attention to its improvement. He had ftu-
died the art of war under Turenne, not as a paftime,
but as a fcience, and was a favourite pupil of that
moft accompliftied general. Turenne one day pointed
him out, faying, “ Behold one who will be one of the
firft princes and greateft generals of Europe.” When
admiral of England, he endeavoured to introduce into
the maritime fervice all thofe principles of concert and
arrangement which made a number of individual regi¬
ments and fquadrons compofe a great army. When he
commanded in the Dutch war, he found a fleet to be
little better than a colleftion of {hips, on board of each
of which the commander and his {hip’s company did
their beft to annoy the enemy, but with very little de¬
pendence on each other, Or on the orders of the gene¬
ral : and in the different aftions which the Englifh fleet
had with the Dutch, every thing was confufion as foon
as the battle began. It is remarkable that the famous
penfionary DeWitt, who from a ftatefman became a na¬
vigator and a great fea commander in a few weeks, made
the fame reprefentation to the States General on his re¬
turn from his firft campaign.
In the memoirs of James II. written by himfelf, we
have the following paffage : “ 1665. On the 15th of
March, the duke of York went to Gunfleet, the gene¬
ral rendezvous of the fleet, and haftened their equip¬
ment. He ordered all the flag officers on board with
him every morning, to agree on the order of battle and
rank. In former battles, no order was kept, and this
under
Naval
Signal'.
* Pepys
was iecre-
tary to the
duke of
York.
Wonderful
funplicity
of his fy-
ftem ;
8 1 G [ j
under the duke of York, was the firft in which fighting
in a line and regular form of battle was obferved.”
This mufc be confidered as full authority for giving
the duke of York the honour of the invention. For
whatever faults may be laid to the charge of this unfor¬
tunate prince, his word and honour Hand unimpeached.
And we are anxious to vindicate his claim to it, becaufe
our neighbours the French, as ufual, would take the me¬
rit of this invention, and of the whole of naval taffies,
to themfelves. True it is, that Colbert, the great and
juftly celebrated minifter of Louis Xi\. created a navy
for his ambitious and vain-glorious mailer, and gave it
a conlfitution which may be a model for other nations
to copy. By his encouragement, men of the greateft
fcientific eminence were engaged to contribute to its
improvement : and they gave us the firlf treatiles of
naval evolutions. But it mull ever be remembered, that
our accomplilhed, though mifguided iovereign, wTas then
refiding at the court of Louis; that he had formerly
afled in concert with the French as a commander and
flag officer, and was at this very time aiding them with
his knowledge of fea affairs. In the memorable day at
La Hogue, the gallant Ruffel, obferving one of Tour-
ville’s movements, exclaimed, “ There ! they have got
Pepys * among them.” This anecdote we give on the
authority of a friend, who heard an old and refpeflable
officer (Admiral Clinton) fay, that he had it from a
gentleman who was in the aflion, and heard the words
fpoken ; and we trull that our readers will not be dil-
pleafed at having this matter of general opinion efta-
bliffied on fome good grounds.
It was on this occafion, then, that the duke of York
made the movements and evolutions of a fleet the ob-
jeff of his particular ftudy, reduced them to a fyltem,
and compofed that “ Syllem of Sailing and Fighting
luftruflions,” which has ever fince been confidered as
the code of difeipline for the Britifh navy, and which
has been adopted by our rivals and neighbours as the
foundation of their naval taffies. It does great honour
to its author, although its merit will not appear very
eminent to a carelefs furveyor, on account of that very
fimplicity which conllitutes its chiel excellence. It is
unqueffionably the refult of much fagacious refleclion
and painful combination of innumerable circumftances,
all of which have their influence and it is remarkable,
that although fucceeding commanders have improved
the lubjefl by feveral fubordmate additions, no change
has to this day been made in its general principles or ma¬
xims of evolution.
Till fome fuch code be ellabliihed, it is evident that
fignals can be nothing but arbitrary and unconnefled
hieroglyphics, to be learned by rote, and retained by me¬
mory, without any exercife of the judgement $ and the
acquifition of this branch of nautical (kill muft be a
more irkfome talk than that of learning the Chineie
writing. But fuch a code being once fettled, the cha-
rafler in which it may be expreffed becomes a matter of
rational difeuffion.
Accordingly, the failing and fighting inftruflions of
the duke of York were accompanied by a fet of fignals
for direfling the chief or moil frequent movements of
the fleet. Thefe alfo were contrived with fo much
judgement, and fuch attention to diftinflnefs, fimplicity,
and propriety, that there has hardly been any change
found neceffary} and they are ftill retained in the Bri-
47 1 S I G
tiffi navy as the ufual fignals in all cafes when we are
not anxious to conceal our movements from an enemy.
Notwithilanding this acknowledged merit of the duke
of York’s fignals, it muft be admitted that great im-yet as an
provements have been made on this fubjeft, confidered art has
as an art. The art military has, in the courfe of a^ehis
century pall, become almoil an appropriate calling, ved con[i_
and has therefore been made the peculiar ftudy of its derable
profeffors. Our rivals the French were fooner, andimprove-
more formally placed in this fituation ; and the minifters meats,
of Louis XIV. took infinite and molt judicious pains
to make their military men fuperior to aU others by
their academical education. A more fcientific turn was
given to their education, and the affiftance oi icientnic
men was liberally given them } and all the nations ot
Europe muft acknowledge fome obligations to them for
information on every thing connefled witn the srt ot
They have attended very much to this fubjefl,
have greatly improved it, and have even introduced a
new principle into the art; and by this means have re¬
duced it to the moll Ample form of reference to the
code of failing and fighting inllruflions, by making the
fignals immediately expreffive, not of orders, but of
fimple numbers. Thefe numbers being prefixed to the
various articles of the code of inf!ructions, the office!
who fees a fignal thrown out by the admiral reads the
number, and reports it to his captain, perhaps without
knowing to what it relates. I bus fimplicity and fe-
crecy, with an unlimited power of variation, are com¬
bined. We believe that M. de la Bourdonnais, a brave
and intelligent officer, during the war I75^> was ^ie
author of this ingenious thought.
We do not propofe to give a fyftem of Britiffi fig¬
nals. This would evidently be improper. But we fliall
fliovv our readers the pradlicability or this curious lan¬
guage, the extent to which it may be carried, mad the
methods which may be praftifed in accompliffiing this
purpofe. This may make it an objecl of attention to
fcientific men, who can improve it', and the young offi¬
cer will not only be able to read the orders of the com¬
mander in chief, but wall not be at a lofs, fliould cir-
cumilances place him in a fituation v.here he muft iilue
orders to others.
Signals may be divided into,
I. Day Signals.
II. Night Signals ; and,
III. Signals in a Fog.
They muft alfo be diftinguiffied into, I. Signals of
EvoLtrnoN, addreffed to the whole Fleet, or to
Squadrons of the fleet, or to Divisions of thefe
fquadrons. 2. Signals of Movements to be made by
particular (hips j and, 3. Signals of Service, which
may be either geneyal or particular. _ _ 7
The great extent of a large fleet, the fmoke in time During an
of battle, and the fituation of the commander in chief, ^gage^
who is commonly in the midi! of the greateft confuflon d^na]s 0f
and hotted fire, frequently makes it very difficult foi admi_
the officers of diftant ftiips to perceive his fignals with ral are re-
diftin&nefs. Frigates, therefore, are ftationed out ofpeated by
the line, to windward or to leeward, whofe foie office it "
is to obferve the admiral’s fignals, and inftantly to repeat 0ftj1£ ^ne.
them. The eyes of all the fignal officers in the private
ftiips of war are direfted to the repeating frigates, as well
as to the admiral 5 and the officers of the repealing fri-
crate„ having no other duty, obferve the admiral incef-
S X s 2 fantly*
S 1 G
Naval
SijnjK.
.*>4
s
Evolution
fignals are
preceded
by a Ggnal
ot adver-
tifement.
S 1 G [
fanlly, and, being unembarraiTed by the adtion, can dif-
piay the fignal with deliberation, io that it may be very
diftinflly feen. Being minutely acquainted with the
i'ubftitutions which mud be made on board the admiral
when his mads and rigging are in diforder, his (perhaps
impeVfeft) fignal is exhibited by the repeating frigate in
its proper form, fo as to be eafily underdood. And to
facilitate this communication, the commanders of the
different fqyadrons repeat the fignals of the commander
in chief, and the commanders of divifion repeat the fig-
nals of the commanders of their fqvtadron.
Every evolution fignal is preceded by a fignal of ad¬
vertisement and PREPARATION, which is general, and
frequently by a gun, to call attention ; and when all
the fignals have been made which direct the different
parts of that evolution, another fignal is made, which
and accom- marks the clofe of the complex fignal, and divides it
a^'iiedtTv^1 ^rom °thers which may immediately follow it: and as
fignal, ^ t^le orders of the commander in chief may relate either
to the movements of the whole fleet, thofe of a Angle
divifion, or thofe of certain private ihips, the Execu¬
tive Signal, which didlates the particular move¬
ment, is accompanied by a Directive Signal, by
which thefe ffiips are pointed out, to which the order is
9 addreffed,
Anfwered The commander of the fliip to which any fignal is
by the com-addreffed, is generally required to fignify by a fignal
whom 'they Cw^c^ ’s general) that he has obferved it. And if
sre added'- ^oes not thoroughly underhand its meaning, he in¬
timates this by another general fignal. And here it is
to be obferved, that as foon as the fignal is anfwered
by the (hips to which it is addreffed, it is ufual to haul
it down, to avoid the confufion which might arife from
others being hoifted in the fame place. The order re¬
mains till executed, notwithftanding that the fignal is
hauled down.
It may happen that the commander who throw's out
the fignal for any piece of fervice, fees reafons for al¬
tering his plan. He intimates this by a general An¬
nulling fignal, accompanying the fignal already given.
This wall frequently be more Ample than to make the
fignals for the movements which would be required
for re-eftabliihing the flaps in their former fltua-
tion.
All thefe things are of very eafy comprehenfion, and
require little thought for their contrivance. But when
we come to the particular evolutions and movements,
and to combine thefe with the circurnftances of fituation
in which the fleet may be at the time, it is evident,
that much refledlion is neceffary for framing a body of
fignals which may be eafily exhibited, diitinftly percei¬
ved, and w'ell underflood, with little rilk of being mif-
taken one for another. We fhall take notice of the cir-
cumftances which chiefly contribute to give them thefe
qualities as we proceed in deferibing their different
claffes.
led.
Annu.ling
fignal.
I. Of Day Signals.
These are made by means of the Ihip’s fails, or by-
colours of various kinds.
Thofe made with fails are but few in number, and
are almoft neceffarily limited to the fituation of a fleet
at anchor. Thus,
3 ]
Ike following Signals
Main topgallant flayfail
hoifted
Fore topfail loofe
Main topiail loofe
Main topfail Iheets haul¬
ed home
Main toplail Iheets clew¬
ed lip, and the yard
hoifled
Topgallant fails loofe, and
the Iheets flying
Main-topgallant lail loofe
and hoifled. Topiail-
yard down
Mizen topfail hoifted, and
the ftieets clewed up
vfualhj fignfy
Othcers and men belong¬
ing to the Ihip to come
on board.
To prepare for failing.
To unmoor.
To weigh.
Annul the former fignal,
and the ftiip to come to
an anchor.
Difcovering ftrange fails.
Recal fhips in chafe.
Moor.
Naval
Signals.
Before we proceed tb the defeription of the fignals by
means of colours, fuch as flags, banners (or triangu¬
lar flags), pendants or vanes, we mult take notice of
the oltenfible diftindtions ol the various divifions and
fubdiviflons ot a fleet, fo that we may underfland how
the tame fignal may be addreffed to a iquadron, divi¬
fion, or fingle fliip or Ihips. We fuppofe it known that
a fleet of thips of war is diftributed into three grand di¬
vifions (which we fhall term fquadronsf called (.he van,
centre, and rear. Thefe denominations have not al¬
ways a relation to the one being more advanced than the
other, either towards the enemy, or in the direction of
their courle. t r
In a land army, the pofition of every part is concei- Meaning
ved from its reference to the enemy j and the reader, of the terms
conceiving himielf as facing the enemy, eafily under- var,» Cfntre»
Hands the terms van, centre, and rear, the right and left ^ p^of1
wing, &c. But the movements of a fea army having battle at
a neceffary dependence on the wind, they cannot be com- fta.
prehended unlefs expreffed in a language wdrich keeps
this circumllance continually in view. The fimpleft
and moft eafily conceived difpofition of a fleet, is that
in which it is almoft indifpenlably obliged to form in or¬
der to engage an enemy. This is a ftraight line, each
fliip diredtly ahead of its neighbour, and clofe hauled.
This is therefore called the line of battle. In this pofi¬
tion, the two extremities of the fleet correfpond to the
right and left wings of an army. Suppofe this line to
be in the diredlion eaft and weft, the wand blowing
from the north-north-w’eft, and therefore the fleet on the
flarboard tack j the ftiips heads are to the weft, and the
weftermoft divifion is undoubtedly the van of the fleet,
and the eaftermoft divifion is the rear. And it is in
conformity to this arrangement and fituation that the
LIST OF the FLEET is drawn up. But the ftiips may
be on the fame call and wTeft line, clofe hauled, with
their heads to the weft, but the wind blowing from the
foutb-fouth-weft. They muft therefore be on the lar¬
board tack. The fame (hips, and the fame divifion, are
ftill, in fadl, the van of the fleet. But fuppofe the ftiips
heads to be to the eaftward, and that they are clofe
hauled^
Naval
Siftnak
S I G [ S
hauled, having the wind from the fouth-fouth-eaft or
the north-north-eaft, the (hips which were the real van
on both tacks i.: the former lunation are now, in fact,
the rear on both tacks 5 yet they retain the denomina¬
tion of the van fquadron of this fleet, and are under t ie
immediate direction of the officer of the fecond rank,
while the other extremity is under the direction of the
third officer. This fubordination therefore is rather an
arrangement of rank and precedence than of evolution.
] t is, however, confidered as the natural order to
which the general fignals muff be accommodated. For
this reafon/the divifion which is denominated van in the
lift of 'his fleet, is generally made to lead the fleet when
in the line of battle on the (larboard tack, and to form
the weather mojl column in the order of failing in^ co¬
lumns; and, in general, it occupies that ftation from
which it can m >ft eafily pafs into the place of tire lead¬
ing divifion on the ftarboard line of battle ahead. Al¬
though this is a technical nicety of language, and may
frequently puzzle a landfman in reading an account of
naval operations, the refledfing and intelligent reader
will fee the propriety of retaining this mode of concei¬
ving the fubordinate arrangement of a fleet, and wall
comprehend the employment of the lignals which are
neceffary for re-eftablifhing this arrangement, or diredf-
ing the movements while anolner arrangement is re¬
tained.
This being underftood, it is eafy to contrive various
nab are ad- methods of diftinguifhing every {hip by the place which
drefTed to OCCUp5es in the fleet, both with refpedl to the whole
line, with refpedf to the particular fquadron, the parti¬
cular divifion of that fquadron, and the particular place
in that divifion. This may be done by a combination
of tbe pofition and colour of the pendants and vanes of
each {hip. Thus the colour of the pendants may indi¬
cate the fquadron, their pofilion or maft on which they
are hoifted may mark the divifion of that fquadron,
and a diftinguifhing vane may mark the place of the pri¬
vate fhip in her own divifion. The advantages attend¬
ing this method are many. In a large fleet it would
hardly be pbflible for tbe commander in chief to find a
fufiicient variety of fingle fignals to mark the fhip to
which an order is addrefted, by hoifting it along with
the fignal appropriated to the intended movement.
But by this contrivance one-third part of thefe fignals of
addrefs is fuflicient. It alfo enables the commander in
chief to order a general change of pofition by a fingle
fignal, which otherwife would require feveral. Thus,
fuppofe that the fore, main, and mizen mails, are ap¬
propriated (with the proper modifications) for exhibiting
the fignals addrefifed to the van, the centre, and the
rear fquadrons of the fleet, and that a red, a white, and
a blue flag, are chofen for the diflinguilhing flags of the
officers commanding thefe fquadrons ; then, if the com¬
mander in chief fhall hoift a red flag at his mizen top¬
gallant maft head, it muft direfl the van fquadron to
take the pofition then occupied by the rear fquadron,
the evolution neceffary for accomplifliing this end being
fuppofed known by the commander of the fquadron,
who will immediately make the neceffary fignals to the
fquadron under his particular diretffion. In the fame
manner, the diftinguifhing fignal for the leading Ihip of
a fquadron being hoifted along with the fignal of a.ldrefs
to the whole fleet) and the fignal for any particular fer-
349 1
S I G
Naval
Signals.
li
How fig-
each of
thefe divi-
liom.
vice, will caufe the three or the nine leading Ihips to
execute that order, &c. &c.
All that has been faid hitherto may be confidered as
fo many preparations for the real iffuing of orders by
the commander in chief. The moft difficult part of
the language remains, viz. to invent a number of fig¬
nals which (hall correfpond to that almoft infinite va¬
riety of movements and fervices which muft be per¬
formed. 13
Diflinflnefs, fimplicity, and propriety, are the three Effential
effential qualities of all fignals. A fignal muft be fomeT1^11^
object eafily feen, llrongly marked, fo that it may
readily underftood, with little rilk of its being mistaken nefS)
for another. When made by flags, banners, or pen¬
dants, they muft be of the fulleft colours, and ftrongeft
contrails. The Ihips are frequently at a very great di-
llance, fo that the intervening air occafions a great de¬
gradation of colour. They are feen between tbe eye
and a very variable Iky ; and in this fituation, efpecially
in the morning or evening, or a dark day, it is not eafy
to diftinguifh one full colour from another, all of them
approaching to the appearance of a black. At the di-
ftance of a very few miles hardly any full colours can
be diftinguifhed but a fcarlet and a blue. Red, blue,
yellow, and white, are the colours which can be diftm-
guifhed at greater diftances than any others, and are
therefore the only colours admitted as fignals. Even
thefe are fometimes diftinguifhed with difficulty. A.
yellow is often confounded with a dirty white, and a
blue with a red. All other dark colours are found to¬
tally unfit. But as thefe afford but a fmall variety, we
mull combine them in one flag, by making it ftriped,
fpotted, or chequered, taking care that the oppofition
of colour may be as great as polfible, and that the pieces
of which the flags are made up may not be too minute.
Red muft never be ftriped nor fpotted with blue 3 and
the ftripes, fpots, or chequers, fhould never be lefs than
one-third of the breadth of the flag. Plate CCCCXCVI.
is a fele&ion by an officer of experience as a fet very
eafily recognifed, and little liable to be confounded.
Their colours are reprefented by hatching, in the fame
manner as in heraldry (fee Heraldry).
Difference of lhape, as flags, banners, or pendants,
is another dillin£lion by which the expreffion may be
varied. And in doing this, we muft recollect, that in
light winds it may be difficult to diftinguifh a flag from-
a banner, as neither are fully difplayed for want of wind
to detach the fly from the llaff.
And, laftly, lignals may be varied by their pofition,
which may be on any lofty and well detached part of
the malls, yards, or rigging. _ ^ 14
Simplicity is an eminent property in all fignals. They fimplicity,
are addreffed to perfons not much accuftomed to com¬
binations, and who are probably much occupied by
other preffing duties. It were to be wifhed that every
piece of fervice could be indicated by a fingle flag.
This is peculiarly defirable with refpeft to the fignals
ufed in time of battle. The rapid fucceffion of events
on this occafion call for a multitude of orders from the
commander in chief, and his Ihip is frequently clad over
with flags and pendants, fo that it is exceedingly diffi¬
cult for the fignal officer of a private (hip to diftinguifli
the different groups, each of which make a particular
lignal,
6 Thefe.
■'Naval
Signals.
l5
ahd pro-
priety.
td
By what
means fig-
r.ah are
diftincflly
conveyed,
*7
and under-
llood.
xS
The art of
fignals
much im¬
proved
fince the
pubjication
of the Tac-
tique Na-
•vale.
T, . . S 1 G C 35
iheie connderations are the foundation of a certain
_ propriety in fignals, which dircfts us to a choice among
marks which appear altogether arbitrary. Signals which
run any rifle of being confounded, on account of fome
refemblance, or becaufe their petition hinders us from
immediately perceiving their difference, thould be ap¬
propriated to pieces of lervice which are hardly paffible
to be executed, or can hardly be wanted, in the fame
fitualion. No bad eonfequence could eafily refult though
the fignal for coming to clofer a cl ion thould referable that
for unmooring, becaufe the prefent fituation of the fiups
makes the latf operation impoffible or abfurd. Such
confiderations direft us to feleA for battle fignals, thole
which are of eafieft exhibition, are the moff fimple, and
have the leaf! dependence on the circumffance of pofi-
tion j fo that their fignification may not be affe&ed by
the damages fuftained in the maths or rigging of the flag
fiiip. Such fignals as are lefs eafily feen at a difiance,
fhould be appropriated to orders which can occur only
in the middle of the fleet, &c. &c. Signals which are
made t:o the admiral by private {hips may be the fame
with fignals of command from the flag fiiip, which will
confiderably diminifh the number of fignals perfeAly
different from each other.
With all thefe attentions and precautions a fyflem of
fignals is at laft made up, fitted to the code of failing
and fighting inftruAions. It is accompanied by another
fmall fet for the duty of convoys. It muft be engrofied
in two books; one for the officer of the flag fhip, who
is to make the fignals, and the other is delivered to
every private fhip. In the firft, the evolutions, move¬
ments, and other operations of fervice, are fet down in
one column, and their correfponding fignals in another.
The firft column is arranged, either alphabetically, by
the diftinguifhing phrafe, or fyftematically, according
to the arrangement of the failing and fighting infiruc-
tions. rI he officer whofe duty it is to make the fignals,
turns to this column for the order which he is to com¬
municate, and in the other column he finds the appro¬
priated fignal.
In the other book, which is confulted for the inter¬
pretation of the fignals, they are arranged in the lead¬
ing^ column, either by the flags, or by the places of
their exhibition. The fiift is the beft method, becaufe
the derangement of the flag fhip’s mails and rigging in
time of adlion may occafion a change in the place of the
fignal.
The Ta&ique Nava/e of the Chevalier de Morogues
contains a very full and elaborate treatife on fignals.
WTe recommend this work to every fea-officer, as full of
inftru&ion. The art of fignals has been greatly fimplified
fince the publication of this work, but we cannot but
aferibe much of the improvements to it. We believe
that the author is the inventor of that fyftematic man¬
ner of addreffing the order or effeBiveJignal to the dif¬
ferent fquadrons and divifions of the fleet, by which the
art of fignals is made more concife, the execution of or¬
ders is rendered more fyftematic, and the commanders
of private fhips are accuftcmed to confider themfelves as
parts of an army, with a mutual dependence and con-
neelion. WTe are ready enough to acknowledge the fu-
periority of the French in manoeuvring, but we affect to
confider this as an imputation on their courage. Nothing
can be more unjuft ; and dear-bought experience fhould
iong ere now nave taught us the value of this fuperiority.
4
O 1 SI G
W hat avails that courage which we would willingly ar- Naval
rogate to ourfelves, it we cannot come to adlion with &'gnal.=.
our enemy, or mult do it in a fitualion in which it is at-
molt impoffible to fucceed, and which needlefsly throws
away the lives of our gallant crews ? Yet this muft
happen, ir our admirals do not make evolutions their
careful ftudy, and our captains do not habituate them-
felves, from their firft hoifting a pendant, to confidec
their own ihip as conneAed with the moft remote fhip
in the line. We cannot think that this view of their
fituation would in the leaft leffen the charaAer which
they have fo juftly acquired, of fighting their Ihip with
a courage and firmnefs unequalled by thole of any other
nation. And we may add, that it is only by fuch a ra¬
tional ftudy of their profeflion, that the gentleman can
be diftinguilhed from the mercenary commander of a
privateer.
II. Night Signals.
It is evident, that the communication of orders by
night muft be more difficult and more imperfeA than by
day. We mull, in general, content ourfelves with
fuch orders as are neceffary for keeping the fleet toge¬
ther, by direAing the more general movements and evo¬
lutions which any change of circumftances may render
neceftary. And here the divifion and fubordinate ar¬
rangement of the fleet is of indifpenfable neceffity, it be¬
ing hardly poffible to particularife every {hip by a fignal
of addrefs, or to fee her fituation. The orders are there¬
fore addreffed to the commanders of the different divi¬
fions, each of whom is diftinguiflred by his poop and
top-lights, and is in the midft of, and not very remote,
from, the {hips under his more particular charge. Yet
even in this unfavourable fituation, it is frequently ne-
ceflary to order the movements of particular fhips. Ac¬
tions during the night are not urfeommon. Purfuits
and rallyings are ftill oftener carried on at this time.
The common dangers of the fea arc as frequent and
more difaftrous. The fyftem of fignals therefore is very
incomplete till this part be accomplithed.
Night fignals muft be made by guns, or by lights, or
by both combined. Ji;
Gun-Jignah are fufceptible of variety both in number How gun-
and in difpofition. The only diftinA variation which %nalsmay
can be made in this difpofition, is by means of the timebevaned"
elnpfed between the difeharges. This will eafily admit
of three varieties, flow, moderate, and quick.-Half-
minute guns are as flow as can eafily be liftened to as ap¬
pertaining to one fignal. Quarter-minute guns are much
better, and admit of two very diftinA fubdivifions. When
the gunners, therefore, are well trained to this fervice
(efpecially fince the employment of firelocks for can¬
non), intervals of 15 or 12 feconds may be taken for
flow firing, 8 or 10 feconds for moderate, and 4 or 5
feconds for quick firing. If thefe could be reduced one
half, and made with certainty and precifion, the expref-
fion would he incomparably more diftinA. A very
fmall number of firings varied in this way will give a
confiderable number of fignals. Thus five guns, with
the variety of only quick and moderate, will give 20
very diftinguilhable fignals. The fame principle muft
be attended to here as in the flag fignals. The mofi:
fimple muft be appropriated to the moft important or¬
ders, fuch as occur in the worft weather, or fuch as are
moil
Naval
Signal-.
S 1 G
moll liable to be iniftaken. Quick
L .35
firing iliould not
Signals by
lights.
make part of a fignal to a very diftant (hip, becaufe the
noife of a gun at a great diftance is a lengthened found,
and two of them, with a very fhort interval, are apt to
coalefce into ©ne long-continued found. This mode of
varying gun-fignals by the time muft therefore be em¬
ployed with great caution, and wTe mult be very certain
of the fteady performance of the gunners.
Note, that a preparatory fignal or advertifement that
an effective fignal is to be made, is a very neceffary
circumftance. It is ufual (at leaf! in hard weather) to
make this by a double difcharge, with an interval of half
a fecond, or at molt a fecond.
Gun-fignals are feldom made alone, except in ordina¬
ry fituations and moderate weather ; becaufe accident
may derange them, and inattention may caufe them to
efcape notice, and, once made, they are over, and their
repetition would change their meaning. They are alfo
improper on an enemy’s coaft, or where an enemy’s
cruifers or fleets may be expefted.
Signals by lights are either made with lights Amply
fo called, i. e. lanthorns fhown in different parts of the
{hip, or by rockets. Lights may differ by number, and
by pofition, and alfo by figure. For the flig Ihip al¬
ways carrying poop or top-lights, or both, prefents an
object in the darkefl night, fo that we can tell whether
the additional lights are exhibited about the mainmaft,
the foreraaft, the mizenmaff, &c. And if the lights
fiiown from any of thefe fituations are arranged in cer¬
tain diftinguifhable fituations in refpedl; to each other,
the number of fignals may be greatly increafed. Thus
three lights may be in a •vertical line, or in a horizontal
line, or in a triangle ; and the point of this triangle may
be up, or down, or forward, or aft, and thus may have
many fignifications.
Lights are alfo exhibited by falfe fires or rockets:
Thefe can be varied by number, and by fuch differen¬
ces of appearance as to make them very diftinguifhable.
Rockets may be with ftars, with rain fire, or fimple
fquibs.
By varying and combining thefe, a very great num¬
ber of fignals may be produced, fully lufficient to direbi;
every general movement or evolution, or any ordinary
and important fervice. The Chevalier de Morogues
has given a fpecimen of fuch a fyftem of night fignals,
into which he has even introduced fignals of addrefs or
direction to every (hip of a large fleet ; and has alfo gi¬
ven fignals of number, by which depths of foundings,
points of the compafs, and other things of this kind,
may be expreffed both eafily and diftimftly. He has
made the fignals by rockets perfectly fimilar in point of
number to thofe by lanthorns, fo that the commander
can take either •, a choice which may have its ufe, be-
caufe the fignals by rockets may caufe the prefence of a
fleet to be more extenfively known than may be conve-
22 nient.
Geneial ob- The commander in chief will inform the fleet by fig-
fervations nal, that guns, or perhaps rockets, are not to be ufed
that night. This fignal, at the fame time, directs the
fleet to clofe the line or columns, that the light fignals
may be better obferved.
It is indeed a general rule to fhow as few lights as
pofiible j and the commander‘frequently puts out his
own poop and top-lights, only fhowing them from time
to time, that his fhips may keep around him.
21
Ttiffe two
fpecies of
fignals may
be com¬
bined.
concernin
night fig¬
nals.
r ] S 1 G
The fignal lanthorns on board the flag fhip, and a Naval
lanthorn kept in readinefs on board of every private (hip, , <
to anfvver or acknowledge fignals from the commander
in chief, are all kept in bags, to conceal their lights till
the moment they are fixed in their places, and the pre¬
paratory or advertifing fignal has been made.
The commander in chief fometimes orders by fignal
every fliip to fliow a light for a minute or two, that he
may iudge of the pofition of the fleet j and the admiral’s
fignal muft always be acknowledged by thofe to whom
it is addreffed.
It is of particular importance that the fleet be kept
together. Therefore the leading fhips of the fleet, on
either tack, are enjoined to acknowledge the fignals of
the commander in chief by a fignal peculiar to their fla-
tion. Thus the commander in chief learns the pofition
of the extremities of his fleet.
In framing a fet of night fignals, great attention muft
be given to their pofition, that they be not obfeured by
the fails. The nature of the order to be given will fre¬
quently determine this.. Thus, an order for the rear
fhips to make more fall, will naturally direft us to
exhibit the fignal at the mizen peek ; and fo of other
pieces of fervice. Lanthorns expofed in groups, fuch
as triangles, lozenges, &c. are commonly lufpended at
the corners of large frames of laths, at the diftance of a
fathom at leaft from each other. Attempts have been
made to fhow lights of different colours; but the rifle of
miftake or failure in the compofition at the laboratory,
makes this rather hazardous. Coloured lanthorns are
more certain ; but'when the glaffes are made cf a colour
fufficien'dy intenfe, the vivacity of the light (which at
no time is very great) is too much diminifhed. Be-
fides, the very dittanee changes the colour exceedingly
and unaccountably.
III. Of Signals hi a Fog.
These can be made only by noifes, fuch as the firing
of cannon and mufkets, the beating of drums and ring¬
ing of bells, &c. Fog fignals are the moft difficult to
contrive of any, and are fufceptible of the leaf! variety.
The commander in chief is principally concerned to
keep his fleet together ; and unlefs fomething very ur¬
gent requires it, he will make no change in his courfe
or rate of failing. But a fiiift of wind or other caufes
may make this neceffary. The changes which he will
order, it will be prudent to regulate by fome fixed rule,
which is in general convenient. Thus, when a fleet is
in the order of failing upon a jvind, and a fog comes on,
the fleet will hold on the fame courfe. If the wind
fhould come a little more on the beam, the fleet will ^
Hill keep clofe to the wind. Certain general rules of By obfer-
this kind being agreed on, no fignals are neceffary forvingeer-
keeping the fleet together 5 and the fhips can feparate ortalnfieiie*
run foul of each other only by difference in their rate of
failing, or by inaccurate fteerage. To prevent this, the nn?a f0<r
commander in chief fires a gun from time to time, and are in many
the fhips of the fleet judge of his fituation and diftance caks unne-
by the found. The commanders of divifions fire guns, ct^Hrjr’
v.’ith fome diftinftion from thofe of the commander in
chief. This both informs the commander in chief
of the pofition of his fquadrons, and enables the pri¬
vate fhips of each divifion to keep in the neighbour¬
hood of their own flag fliip. On board of every private
fhip ike drum is beaten, or the bell is chimed, every
quarter-
'Naval
Signal?.
24
How they
are given
when ne-
ceffary.
s 1 G [35
quarter of an hour, according as the fhip is on the ftar-
board or larboard tack. By luch contrivances, it is ne¬
ver difficult to keep a fleet in very good order when
failing on a wind. The wind is almoft always mode¬
rate, and the (hips keep under a very eafy fail. It is
much more difficult when going large, and feparation
can be prevented only by the moil unwearied attention.
The greateft rilk is the falling in wdth ftrange {hips
fteerlng another courfe.
But evolutions and other movements are frequently
indifpenfable. The courfe mult be changed by tacking
or wearing, and other fervices muft be performed. None,
however, are admitted but the moft probable, the moft
Ample, and the mod neceiTary.
The commander in chief firft informs the fleet by the
preparatory fogjignal, that he is about to order an evo¬
lution, and that he is to diredf it by fog Jigna/s. This
precaution is indifpenfable to prevent miftakes. Along
with this advertifing iignal he makes the flgnal of the
movement intended. This not only calls the attention
of the fleet, but makes the ffiips prepare for the precife
execution of that movement. The commanders of divi-
fions repeat the advertifing fignal, which informs their
{hips of their fituation, and the private ffiips beat their
drums or chime their bells. Thus the whole {hips of
the fleet clofe a little, and become a little better ac¬
quainted with their mutual pofition. It is now under-
ftood that a movement is to be made precifely a quarter
of an hour after the advertifement. At the expiration
of this time, the effeftive fignal for this movement is
made by the commander in chief, and mufl be infiantly
repeated by the commanders of divifions, and then the
movement mufl; be made by each ffiip, according to the
failing and fighting inftrudfions. This mufl; be done
with the utmoil attention and precifion, befcaufe it pro¬
duces a prodigious change in the relative pofition of the
ffiips 5 and even although the good fenfe of the com¬
mander in chief wall feleft fuch movements for accom-
pliffiing his purpofe as produce the fmallefl alterations,
and the leaft rifk of feparation or running foul of each
other ; it is {fill extremely difficult to avoid thefe mis¬
fortunes. To prevent this as much as poffible, each
ffiip which has executed the movement, or which has
come on a courfe thwarting that of the fleet, intimates
this by a fignal properly adapted, often adding the fig¬
nal of the tack on which it is now (landing, and even
its particular fignal of recognizance. This is particular¬
ly incumbent on the flag (hips and the leading (hips of
each divifion.
After a reafonable interval, the commander in chief
will make proper fignals for bringing the fleet to a
knowledge of their reunion in this new pofition.
This mull ferve for a general account of the circum-
ftances wffiich muft be attended to in framing a code of
a particular fignals. The arbitrary characters in which the lan-
account of guage is written mufl; be left to the fagacity of the gen-
fignals. tlemen of the profeffion. It mufl; be obferved, that the
ftratagems of war make fecrecy very neceflary. It may
be of immenle hazard if the enemy ffiould underftand
our fignals. In time of battle it might frequently fruf-
trate our attempts to deftroy them, and at all times
would enable them to efcape, or to throw us into dif-
order. Every commander of a fquadron, therefore, if-
fues private fignals, fuited to his particular deftination •,
£nd therefore it is necefiary that our code of fignals be
3
*5
Improper
to publilh
26
2 ] S I G
fufceptible of endlefs variations. This is exceedingly
eafy without any increafe of their number. The com¬
mander needs only intimate that fuch and fuch a fignal
is fo and fo changed in its meaning during his com¬
mand.
We cannot leave this article without returning to ans[gn‘j" may
obfervation which we made almofl in the beginning, l^e made
viz. that the fyftem of fignals, or, to fpeak more pro-1’16 imme-
perly, the manner of framing this fyftem, has received
much improvement from the gentlemen of the French ru'njbtr3>°
navy, and particulaily from the moil ingenious thought
of M. de la Bourdonnais, of making the fignals the im-
media;e expreffions of numbers only, which numbers
may be aftemards ufed to indicate any order whatever.
We fhall prefent our readers with a fcheme or two of
the manner in which this may be done for all flgnpls,
both day, night, and fog. This alone may be confider-
ed as a fyftem of fignals, and is equally applicable to
every kind of information at a diftance. Without de¬
tracting in the fmaileft degree from the praife due to
M. de la Bourdonnais, we muft obferve, that ibis prin¬
ciple of notation is of much older dale. Biftiop Wil¬
kins, in his Secret and Swift Meifenger, exprelsly re¬
commends it, and gives fpecimens of the manner of ex¬
ecution } fo does Dr Hooke in fome of his propofals to
the Royal Society. Gafpar Schottus alfo mentions it in
his Technica Curiofa ; and Kircher, among others of his
Curious ProjeCls.
M. de la Bourdonnais’s method is as follows: M. de la
He choofes pendants for his effective fignals, becaufe Bourdon-
they are the moft eafily difplayed in the proper orderA^sf™e”
Several pendants, making past of one fignal, may be
hoifted by one Kailyard, being flopped on it at the di-
fiance of four or fix feet from each other. If it be
found proper to throw out another fignal at the fame
time and place, they are feparated by a red pendant
without a point. His colours are chofen with judge¬
ment, being very diftinCtly recogntfed, and not liable
to be confounded with the addrefling fignals appropri¬
ated to the different ffiips of tire fleet. They are,
For N° 1. Red. For N° 6. Red, with blue tail.
White.
Blue.
Yellow.
Red, with
white tail.
•7. White, with blue tail.
8. White, with red tail.
9. Blue, with yellow tail.
10. Yellow7, with blue tail.
Three fets of fuch pendants will exprefs every number
under a thoufand, by hoifting one above the other, and
reckoning the uppermoft hundreds, the next below it
tens, and the lowefl units. Thus the number 643 will
be expreffed by a pendant red with blue tail, a yellow
pendant below it, and a blue one below the laft.
This method has great advantages. The fignals may
be hoifted in any place where belt feen, and therefore
the fignification is not affeCted by the derangement of
the flag ffiip’s mafts and rigging. And by appropriat¬
ing the fmaller numbers to the battle fignals, they are
more fimpie, requiring fewer pendants. 2g
As this me’hod requires a particular fet of colours,misht be
it has its inconveniences. An admiral is often obliged rendered
to (hift his flag, even in time of aCtion. He cannot ea-™uc^
fily take the colours along wdth him. It is_t^eref°yeuf^g fewer
better to make ufe of fuch colours as every private ffiip C0|0urs.
is provided with. One fet of 11 will do, with the ad¬
dition
O 1 Lx
35
Naval
Signals.
29
Another
method of
expreffing
numbers by
fewer co¬
lours,
dition of three, at moft of four pendants, of Angular
make, to mark 100, 200, 300, 400. Two of thefe
flags, one above the other, will exprefs any number un¬
der 100, by ufing the nth as a fubftitute for any flag
that fhould be repeated. Thus the nth flag, along
with the flag for eight or for fix, will exprefs the num¬
ber 88 or 66, &c. Thus we are able to exprefs every
number below 500, and this is fufficient for a very large
code of lignals.
And in order to diminifh as much as poflible the
number of thefe compound fignals, it will be proper
that a number of Angle flag flgnals be preferred, and
even varied by circumftances of poAtion, for orders
which are of very frequent occurrence, and w’hich can
hardly occur in Atuations where any obftruftions are
occaAoned by lofs of mails, &c. And farther, to
avoid all chance of miftake, a particular Agnal can be
added, intimating that the Agnals now exhibited are
numerary Agnals ; or, w’hich is flill better, all Agnals
may be confidered as numerary flgnals •, and thofe which
we have jufl: now called Jingle jiag Jignals may be fet
down oppoflte to, or as exprefling, the largeft numbers
of the code.
This method requires the Agnal of advertifement, the
annulling Agnal, the Agnal of addrefs to the particular
ihip or diviflon, the Agnal of acknowledgement, the Ag¬
nal of indiftinflnefs, of diftrefs, of danger, and one or
two more which, in every method, muff: be employed.
Another method of exprefling numbers with fewer
colours is as follows : Let the flags be A, B, C, D, E,
F, and arrange them as follows:
A B C D E F
123456
A 7 8 9 10 it 12
B 13 14 15 16 17 18
C 19 20 21 22 23 24
D 25 26 27 28 29 30
E 31 33 34 35 36
F 37 38 39 40 41 42
The number expreffed by any pair of flags is found in
the interfeftion of the horizontal and perpendicular co¬
lumns. Thus the flag D, hoifted along with and above
the flag F, exprefles the number 40, &c. In order to
exprefs a greater number (but not exceeding 84) fup-
* C •
pofe 75, hoift the flags which expreffes 33, or 75
wanting 42, and above them a flag or flgaal G, which
whichmay a^orie exprefles 42.
be alfo im- This method may be Hill farther improved by ar-
proved. ranging the flags thus:
A B C D E F
1 2 3 4 5 6
A 7 8 9 10 11 12
B — 13 14 15 16 17
C — — 18 19 20 21
D — — — 22 23 24
E — — — — 25 26
In this laft method the flgniflcation of the Agnal is to¬
tally independent of the pofltion of the flags. In
whatever parts of the fhip the flags D and E are feen,
Vol. XIX. Part I.
This would fuit battle
Naval
Signals.
3 J ^ ^
they exprefs the number 23.
Agnals.
Another method ftill may be taken. Flags hoifted J
anywhere on the foremaft may be accounted units, thofe a third
on the mainmaft tens, and thofe on the mizenmaft hun-methed.
dreds. Thus numeral flgnals may be made by a (hip
difmafted, or having only poles in their place.
Many other ways may be contrived for exprefling
numbers by colours, and there is great room for ex-
erciflng the judgement of the contriver. For it muffc
always be remembered, that thefe Agnals muft be ac¬
companied with a flgnal by which it is addrefled to
fome particular fhip or diviflon of the fleet, and it may
be difficult to conned! the one with the other, which isr
perhaps fhown in another place, and along with other
executive flgnals. ^
One great advantage of thefe numeral flgnals is, that Advantage*
they may be changed in their flgniflcation at pleafure. numerat
Thus, in the flrfl: method, it can be fettled, that on
fignals.
Sundays the colours A, B, C, D, &c. exprefs the cy¬
phers, 1, 2, 3, 4, &c. but that on Mondays they ex¬
prefs the cyphers o, 1, 2, 3, &c. and on Tuefdays the
cyphers 9, o, 1,2, &c. j and fo on through all the days
of the week. This mean of fecrecy is mentioned by
Dr Hooke for the coaft and alarm Agnals, where, by
the by, he fhews a method for conveying intelligence
over land very Amilar to what is now pradlifed by the
French with their telegraph. ^
It is equally eafy to exprefs numbers by night Agnals. Numbers
Thus M. de la Bourdonnais propofes, that one dif-nisy be alfe
charge of a great gun {hall exprefs 7, and that 1, 2, j;exPrefltd
4, 5, 6 fhall be exprefled by lights. Therefore, to ex-j-^^ t
prefs 24, we muft Are three guns, and fhow three *
lights. This is the moft perfedt of all forms of night
and fog flgnals. For both the manner of Aring guns
and of exhibiting lights may be varied to a fufticient ex¬
tent with very few guns or lights, and with great di-
fiindfnefs.
Thus, for guns. Let F mark the Aring of a Angle
gun at moderate intervals, and ff a double gun, that is,
two difcharged at the interval of a fccond. We may
exprefs numbers thus:
1 F.
2 F, F.
3 F> F, F.
4 F, F, F, F.
5 F,//.
6 F, F,//
7 f.//; F.
8 F,//, F, F.
9 F,//, F,//.
10 ff.
100, Sec. ffff oxfff
It might be done with fewer guns if the ff were ad¬
mitted as the flrft flring. But it feems better to be¬
gin always with the Angle gun, and thus the double
gun beginning a Agnal diftinguifhes the tens &c.
In like manner, a fmall number of lights will admit
of a great variety of very diftindl pofitions, which may
ferve for all Agnals to (hips not very remote from the
commander in chief. For orders to be underftood at
a very great diftance, it will be proper to appropriate
the numbers which are indicated by Agnals made with
Y y rockets.
4
/
S 1 G [ 354 ] SI L
Naval
Signals
II
Signature.
Concluding
remarks.
rockets. Thefe can be varied in number and kind to a
fufficient extent, fo as to be very eafily diflinguifhed
and underftood. It is fufficient to have ffiown how the
whole, or nearly the whole, notation of fignals may be
limited to the expreffion of numbers.
We have taken little notice of the fignals made by
private ihips to the commander in chief. This is a
very eafy bufinefs, becaufe there is little rilk of con¬
founding them with other fignals. Nor have we fpo-
ken of iignals from the flag Ihips whole ultimate inter¬
pretation is number, as when Ihips are directed to
change their couife fo many points. Thofe aifo are
eafily contrived in any of the methods already defcri-
bed : alfo when a private ffiip wilhes to inform the com¬
mander in chief that foundings are found at fo many
fathoms. In like manner, by numbering the points
of the compafs, the admiral can direct to chace to any
one of them, or may be informed of ftrange Ihips being
feen in any quarter, and what is their number.
SIGNALS by the Drum, made ufe of, in the exercife
of the army, inftead of the word of command, viz.
Signals.
A jhort roll,
A flam.
To armf,
The march.
The quich march,
The point of war,
The retreat.
Drum ccajing.
Two fhort rolls.
The dragoon march,
The grenadier march,
The troop,
The long roll.
The grenadier march.
The preparative.
The general,
Two long rolls,
Operations.
To caution.
To perform any diftinft thing.
To form the line or battalion,
y To advance, except when in-
^ tended for a falute.
To advance quick.
To march and charge.
To retreat.
To halt.
To perform the flank firing.
To open the battalion.
To form the column.
To double divifions.
To form the fquare.
f To reduce the fquare to the
\ column.
To make ready and fire.
To ceafe firing.
To bring or lodge the colours.
SIGNATURE, a fign or mark imprefied upon any
thing, whether by nature or art. Such is the general
fignification of the word but in the plural number it
Iras been ufed, in a particular fenfe, to denote thofe ex¬
ternal marks by which phyfiognomifts and other dabblers
in the occult fciences pretend to difcover the nature and
internal qualities of every thing on which they are found.
According to Lavater, every corporeal objedl is cha-
xafterized by fignatures peculiar to itfelf.
The doftrine of fignatures, like alchemy and aflrolo-
gy, was very prevalent during the 15th and 16th cen¬
turies 5 and was confidered as one of the occult fciences
which conferred no fmall degree of honour on their re-
fpeftive profeflbrs. Some of thele philofophers, as they
thought fit to ftyle themfelves, maintained that plants,
minerals, and animals, but particularly plants, had fig¬
natures impreffed on them by the hand of nature, indi¬
cating to the adept the therapeutic ufes to which they
might be applied. Others, fuch as the myfiic theofo-
phifts and chemifts of that day, proceeded much farther
in abfurdity, maintaining that every fubfiance in nature
had either external fignatures immediately difcernible,
er internal fignatures, which, when brought iuto view
by fire or menflrua, denoted its connexion with fome Signature-
fidereal or celeftial archetype. Of the do&rine of fig- . il
natures, as it relates merely to the therapeutic ufes of S'^ria' .
plants and minerals, traces are to be found in the works v
of fome of the greateft authors of antiquity ; but the
celeftial fignatures, we believe, were difcovered only by
the moonlight of the monkifh ages. Pliny informs us *, * ^Jal.
that the marble called ophites, from its being fpotted lib. 34.
like a ferpent, was difcovered by thofe fpots to be a fo-
vereign remedy for the bite of that animal •, and that
the colour of the h<ematites or blood-ftone intimated that
it was fit to be employed to flop an hemorrhagy but
we do not recolleil his attributing the virtues of thefe
minerals to a fidereal or celeftial influence.
Signature, a figning of a perlon’s name at the bot¬
tom of an a£! or deed written by his own hand.
Signature, in Printing, is a letter put at the bot¬
tom of the firfl page at leaft, in each flieet, as a direc¬
tion to the binder in folding, gathering, and collating
them. The fignatures confifl of the capital letters of
the alphabet, which change in every iheet •, if there be
more flieets than letters in the alphabet, to the capital
letter is added a fmall one of the fame fort, as A a, B b j
which are repeated as often as necefiary. In large vo¬
lumes it is eafy to diftinguifli the number of alphabets,
after the firft three or four, by placing a figure before
the fignature, as 5 B, 6 B, &c.
SIGNET, one of the king’s feaJs, made ufe of in
fealing his private letters, and all grants that pal’s by
bill figned under his majefty’s hand : it is always in the
cuflody of the fecretaries of flate.
Signet, in Scots Law. See Law, Part III. § 17.
SILENE, Catchfly, or Vifcous Campion, a genus
of plants belonging to the clafs decandria, and order
trigynia ; and in the natural fyftem arranged under the
22d order, caryophyllece. See Botany Index.
SILESIA, a duchy of Germany, bounded on the
eaft by Poland j on the weft, by Bohemia and Lower
Lufatia} on the fouth, by a chain of mountains,
and a thicket of confiderable extent which feparates it
from Hungary; and to the north, by the marquifate
of Brandenburg and Poland. From north-weft to fouth-
eaft it is about 274 miles, and about 100 where broad-
eft : but it is much contrafted at both ends. Upon the
frontiers of this country, to the weft and louth, are ve¬
ry high mountains, and fome likewife in other parts of
it. One of the ridges upon the frontiers is ftyled the
Riphcean Mountains, another the Moravian, another the
Bohemian, and another the Hungarian, Crapach, or Car¬
pathian. A branch of the Bohemian is called the Giant
Mountains. The winter on thefe hilly trails is more
fevere, fets in fooner, and lafts longer, than in the low
lands. The inhabitants ufe a kind of Ikates when the
fnow is deep, as they do in Carniola. Little or no
grain is raifed in the mountains and fome fandy trails ;
but the reft of the country is abundantly fruitful, not
only in grain, but fruits, roots, pafture, flax, hops, mad¬
der, tobacco, and hemp, yielding alfo fome wine, with
confiderable quantities of filk and honey. In many
places are great woods of pines, fir, beech, larch, and
other trees, affording tar, pitch, rofin, turpentine, lamp¬
black, and timber for all ufes. In this country alfo is
found marble of feveral forts, fome precious ftones, lime-
ftone, millftone, pitcoal, turf, vitriol, fome filver ore,
copper, lead, iron, and mineral fprings. Great num-
t
Silefia
s I L t 3
Sikfia. bers of black caltle and horfes are brought hither from
“-Y 1 Poland and Hungary for fale, thofe bred in the coun¬
try not being fufficient j but of fheep, goats, game, and
venifon, they have great plenty. As for wild beads,
here are lynxes, foxes, weafels, otters, and beavers. The
rivers, lakes, and ponds, yield filh of feveral forts, parti¬
cularly llurgeons feveral ells in length, and falmon. Be-
fides a number of fmaller dreams to water this country,
there is the Oder, which traverfes it almod from one
end to the other 5 and the Vidula, which after a pretty
long courfe through it enters Poland. The number of
the cities and market-towns is faid to be about 200, the
county of Glatz included, and that of the villages 5000.
The inhabitants, who are computed to be about 1,8 21,065
are a mixture of Germans, Poles, and Moravians. The
language generally fpoken is German; but in feme pla¬
ces the vulgar tongue is a dialedl of tire Sclavonic. The
dates condd of the princes and dukes, and thofe called
Jlatcdords, with the nobility, who are immediately ful>
jeft to the fovereign, and the reprefentatives of the chief
cities; but dnee the country fell under the dominion of
the king of Pruffia, no diets have been held. The
king, howxver, when he took poffedion of the country,
confirmed all the other privileges of the inhabitants.
With refpedh to religion, not only Protedants, but Pa-
pids, Jews, and Greeks, enjoy full liberty of con-
fcience. The greated part of Sileda lies in the diocefe
of Brellaw, but fome part of it in the Polifh diocefes of
Pofen and Cracow. The bidiop of Breilaw dands im¬
mediately under the pope with regard to fpirituals; but
all eccledadical benefices, not excepting the fee of Bre¬
ilaw, is in the king’s gift. Befides Latin fchools, col¬
leges, and feminaries, at Brefiaw is an univerfity, and
at Lignitz an academy for martial exercifes. The prin¬
cipal manufaflures here are wmollens, linens, and cot¬
tons of feveral forts, with hats, glafs-ware, gunpowder,
and iron manufactures. Of thefe there is a confiderable
exportation. Accounts are generally kept in rix-dollars,
diver grofehens, and ducats. With refpeft to its revo¬
lutions and prelent government, it was long a part of the
kingdom of Poland ^ afterwards it had feveral dukes and
petty princes for its fovereigns, who by degrees became
fubjeft to the kings of Bohemia, until at lad King
Charles IV. incorporated the whole duchy with Bohe¬
mia ■, and thus it continued in the poffedion of the houfe
of Audria, until the king of Pruffia in 1742, taking ad¬
vantage of the troubles that enfued upon the death of
the emperor Charles VI. and pretending a kind of claim,
wreded a great part of it, together with the county of
Glatz, from his daughter and heirefs Maria Therefa,
the late emprefs dowrager ; fo that now only a fmall
part of it is pofiefled by the houfe of Audria, and con-
nefled wfith the empire, the red being governed by
the king of Pruffia, without acknowdedging any fort of
dependence on the crown of Bohemia or the empire.
For the adminidration of judice in all civil, crimi¬
nal, and feudal cafes, and fuch as relate to the reve¬
nue, the king of Pruffia has edablidied three fupreme
judicatories, to which an appeal lies from all the infe¬
rior ones, and from which, when the fum exceeds ^co
rix-dollars, caufes may be moved to Berlin. The
Lutheran churches and fchools are under the infpec-
tion of the upper confidori&s, and thofe of the Pa-
pids under that of the bi(hop’s court at Breflaw; but
from both an appeal lies to the tribunal at Berlin.
5 I S ! £ 
As to the revenue, the excife here is levied only in
the walled towns, being on the fame footing as in the
marquifate of Brandenburg ; but in the red of the coun- .
try the contributions are fixed, and the fame both in
peace and war. The feveral branches of the revenue
are under the management of the w?ar and domain of¬
fices of Brellaw and Glogau. The whole revenue ari-
fing to the king of Pruffia frona Silefia and the county
of Glatz amounts to about four millions of rix-dollars
per annum.
Silefia is divided into Upper and Lower, and each of
thefe again into principalities and lordfhips; of fome of
which both the property and jurifdiddion belong imme¬
diately to the fovereign, but of others to his (ubjecls and
vaffals. In regard to the charafler of the people, the
boors are accounted very dull and dupid ; but of thofe
of a higher rank, many have didinguiffied themfelves by
their wit and learning, as well as by their military and
political talents.
SILESIAN EARTH, in the Materia Medica, a fine
adringent bole. It is very heavy, of a firm compaft
texture, and in colour of a brownilh yellow. It breaks
eafily between the fingers, and does not dain the hands ;
is naturally of a fmooth furface, is readily diffufible in
water, and melts freely into a butter-like fubitance in
the mouth. It leaves no grittinefs between the teeth,>
and does not ferment with acids. It is found in the
perpendicular fiflures of rocks near the gold mines in
Hungary.
SILICERNIUM, among the Romans, was a feaft
of a private nature, provided for the dead fome time af¬
ter the funeral. It confided of beans, lettuces, bread,
eggs, See. Thefe were laid upon the tomb, and they
fooiifhly believed that the dead would come out for the
repad. What wras left was generally burnt on the
done. The word jtiicernium is derived from Jilex and
ectna, i. e. “ a fupper upon a done.” Eating what had
thus been provided for the dead, was edeemed a mark of
the mod miferable poverty. A dmilar entertainment
was made by the Greeks at the tombs of the deceafed ;
but it was ufual among them to treat the ghods with
the fragments from the fead of the living. See Fune¬
ral and Infertte.
SILEX. See Flint.
SILICEOUS earths. See Silica, Chemistry
Index.
SILIUS Italicus, Caius, an ancient Roman poet,
and author of an epic poem in 17 books, which con¬
tains an hidory of the fecond Punic Avar, fo famous for
having decided the empire of the wrorld in favour of the
Romans. He was born in the reign of Tiberius, and
is fuppofed to have derived the name of Italicus from
the place of his birth 5 but whether he was born at ita-
lica in Spain, or at Corfinium in Italy, which, accord¬
ing to Strabo, had the name of Italica given it during
the Social war, is a point which cannot be known :
though, if his birth had happened at either of thefe
places, the grammarians would tell us, that he diould have
been called Italicenjis, and not Italicus. When he came
to Rome, he applied himfelf to the bar j and, by a dole
imitation of Cicer-o, fucceeded fo well, that he became
a celebrated advocate and mod accomplilhed orator.
His merit and charader recommended him to the high-
ed offices in the republic, even to the confullhip, of
which he was poflefl'ed when Nero died. He is faid to
Y y 2 have
Si tins,
Silk.
.. s 1 l [356 r
nave been aiding and aflifting in accufing perfons of produced.
j bigh rank and fortune, whom that wicked emperor had
devoted to deftruftion: but he retrieved his charafter
afterwards by a long and uniform courfe of virtuous be¬
haviour. Vefpafian fent him as proconful into Afia,
where he behaved with clean hands and unblemifhed re¬
putation. After having thus fpent the bed part of his
life in the fervice of his country, he bade adieu to public
affairs, refolving to confecrate the remainder to polite
retirement and the mufes. He had feveral fine villas in
the country : one at Tufculum, celebrated for having
been Cicero’s; and a farm near Naples, faid to have
been Virgil’s, at which was his tomb, which Silius often
vifited. Thus Martial compliments him on both thefe
accounts:
S I L
By fome of the ancients it was fuppofed to
be a fine down adhering to the leaves of certain trees or
flowers. Others imagined it to be a delicate fpecies of
wool or cotton ; and even thofe who had learned that
it was the wrork of an infed, fliorv by their defcriptions
that they had no diflind idea of the manner in which it
was formed. Among the Romans, filk was deemed a
drefs too expenfive and too delicate for men, and was
appropriated wholly to women of eminent rank and opu¬
lence. Elagabulus is faid to have been the firft man
among the Romans wfio wore a garment of fine filk :
Aurelian complained that a pound of filk was fold at
Rome for 12 ounces of gold j and it is faid he refufed
to give his wife permifiion to w^ear it on account of
its exorbitant price.
Silk.
Sihus luce inagm celebrat monumenta Maronis,
Jugera facundi qui Ciceronis habet.
Jrlceredem Dominumque fin tumulique larifque
Non ahum mallet nee Maro nec Cicero,
Epigr. 49. lib. xi.
Of Tully’s feat my Silius is poflefs’d,
And his the tomb where Virgil’s afhes reft.
Could thofe great fhades return to choofe their heir,
The prefent owner they would both prefer.
In thefe retirements he applied himfelf to poetry : led
not fo much by any great force of genius, wdrich wmuld
certainly not have fuffered him to flay till life was in
the wane and his imagination growing cold, as by his
exceeding great love of Virgil, to whofe memory he
paid the higheft veneration. He has imitated him in
his poem ; and though he falls infinitely fhort of him,
yet he has difcoveied a great and univerfal genius, w-hich
would have enabled him to fucceed in fome degree in
whatever he undertook.
Having been for fome time afflifled with an impoft-
hume, which was deemed incurable, he grew w-eary of
life, to which, in the language of Pliny, he put an end
with determined courage.
There have been many editions of Silius Italians. A
neat and correft one waspublifhed at Leipficin 1696, in
8vo. with fhort and ufeful notes by Cellarius : but the
beft is that cum noth integris variorum et Arnoldi Dra-
kenborch. Trajedf. ad Rhen. 1717, in 4to.
SILK, a very foft, fine, bright thread, the wrork of
an infe£l called bombyx, or the filk worm.
As the filk worm is a native of China, the culture of
filk in ancient times was entirely confined to that coun¬
try. We are told that the empreffes, furrounded by
their women, fpent their leifure hours in hatching and
rearing filk worms, and in weaving tiffues and filk veils.
That this example was foon imitated by perfons of all
ranks, we have reafon to conclude ; for we are informed
that the Chinefe, who were formerly clothed in fkins,
in a ftsort time after were drefled in veftments of filk.
Till the reign of Juftinian, the filk worm was unknown
beyond the territories of China, but filk was introduced
into Perfia long before that period. After the conqueft
of the Perfian empire by Alexander the Great, this va-
T luabie commodity was brought into Greece, and thence
©pinions of conveyed to Rome. The firft of the Roman writers
the ancients extant by whom filk is mentioned, are Virgil and Ho-
conceming race • but it is probable that neither of them knew
•TfdkatUre -k013 country ft was obtained, nor how it was
For feveral centuries the Perfians fupplied the Roman R 2
empire with the filks of China. Caravans traverfed thefrem china
whole latitude of Afia, in 243 days, from the Chinefe by the fer-
ocean to the fea-coaft of Syria, carrying this commodity. the
Sometimes it was conveyed to the ports of Guzerat and nm.e Juf*
Malabar, and thence tranfported by fea to the Perfiantinian*
gulf. The Perfians, with the ufual rapacity of mono-
polifts, raifed the price of filk to fuch an exorbitant Roiertr0Tj>s
height, that Juftinian, eager not only to obtain a full
and certain fupply of a commodity which wras become
of indifpenfable ufe, but felicitous to deliver the c.om-cernv'S
merce of his fubjeds from the exadions of his enemies,p*S8,
endeavoured, by means of his ally, the Chriftian mo¬
narch of Abyflinia, to wreft fome portion of the filk
trade from the Perfians. In this attempt he failed ; but
when he leaft expeded it, he, by an unforefeen event,
attained, in fome meafure, the objed which he had in
view. Two Perfian monks having been employed ass;ik^
miflionaries in fome of the Chriftian churches, which mUodiued3
were eftabliflied (as we are informed by Cofmas) in dif- into Europe
ferent parts of India, had penetrated into the country ofby two
the Seres, or China. There they obferved the laboursnjonks'
of the filk worm, and became acquainted with all the
arts of man in working up its produdions into fuch a
variety of elegant fabrics. The profped of gain, or per¬
haps an indignant zeal, excited by feeing this lucrative
branch of commerce engreffed by unbelieving nations,
prompted them to repair to Conftantinople. There
they explained to the emperor the origin of filk, as well
as the various modes of preparing and manufaduring it,
myfteries hitherto unknown, or very imperfedly under-
ftoed in Europe ; and encouraged by his liberal promifes,
they undertook to bring to the capital a fufficient num¬
ber of thofe wonderful infeds, to whofe labours man is
fo much indebted. This they accomplifhed, by convey¬
ing the eggs of the filk worm in a hollow cane. They
w'ere hatched by the heat of a dunghill, fed with the
leaves of a wdld mulberry tree, and they multiplied and
worked in the fame manner as in thofe climates where
they firft became objeds of human attention and care.
Vaft numbers of thefe infeds w'ere foon reared in diffe¬
rent parts of Greece, particularly in the Peloponnefus.
Sicily afterwards undertook to breed filk worms with
equal fuccefs, and was imitated, from time to time, in
feveral towns of Italy. In all thefe places extenfive
manufadures were eftablifhed and carried on with filk of
domeftic produdion. The demand for filk from the eaft
diminifhed of courfe, the fubjeds of the Greek emperors
were no longer obliged to have recourfe to the Perfians
for a fupply of it, and a confiderable change took place
in
S I L [ 357 1 S I L
Silk. in the nature of the commercial intercourfe between Eu-
' ' » rope and India.
As filk is the produflion of a worm, it will be firft
neceffary to give a defcription of its nature and mode of
manufacturing. But before we give any account of the
molt approved methods of managing filk worms in Eu¬
rope, it will be proper to prefent a flrort defcription of
the methods praftifed in China, the original country of
the filk worm. Thefe are two : they either permit
them to remain at liberty on mulberry trees, or keep
them in rooms. As the finer! filk is produced by wTorms
confined in rooms, and as the firft method is very fim-
ple, it will fuffice to defcribe the lecond.
4 To begin with the eggs, which are laid on large {beets
rearimf filk of PaPer> t0 which they firmly adhere* The flieetS are
worms m hung up on a beam of the room, with the eggs inward,
China. and the windows are opened in tlie front to admit the
wind ; but no hempen ropes muft ever come near the
worms or their eggs. After foroe days the (beets aie
taken down, rolled up loofely with the eggs inward,
and then hung up again, during the fummer and autumn.
At the end of December, or the beginning of January,
the eggs are put into cold water, with a little fait dif-
folved in it. Two days after they take them out, hang
them up again, and when dry roll them a little tighter,
and enclofe each feparately, (landing on one end in an
earthen veffel. Some put them into a lye made of mul¬
berry tree allies, and then lay them lome moments in
fnowr-water, or elfe hang them up three nights on a
mulberry tree to receive the fnow or rain, if not too
violent. The time of hatching them is when the leaves
of the mulberry trees begin to open, for they are haf-
tened or impeded according to the different degrees of
heat or cold to which they are expofed. When they
are ready to come forth, the eggs fwell, and become a
little pointed.
The third day before they are hatched, the rolls of
paper are taken out of the veffel, ftretched out, and hung
up with their backs toward the fun, till they receive
a kindly wnrnnth ; and then being rolled up clofe, they
are fet upright in a veffel in a warm place. This is re¬
peated the next day, and the eggs change to an afli-
gray. They then put two (beets together, and rolling
them clofe tie the ends.
The third day, towards night, the (beets are unroll¬
ed and ftretched on a fine mat, when the eggs appear
blackilh. They then roll three (beets together, and
carry them into a pretty warm place, (heltered from the
fouth wind. The next day the people taking out the
rolls, and opening them, find them full of worms like
fmall black ants.
The apartment chofen for filk worms is on a dry
ground, in a pure air, and free from noife. The rooms
are fquare, and very clofe, for the fake of warmth ; the
door faces the fouth, and is covered with a double
mat, to keep out the cold ; yet there fhould be a win¬
dow on every fide, that when it is thought neceffary the
air may have a free pafl?ge. In opening a window to
let in a refrefhing breeze, care muft be taken to keep
out the gnats and flies. The room muft be furniflied
with nine or ten rows of frames, 'about nine inches one
above the other. On thefe they place rufli hurdles, up¬
on which the worms are fed till they are ready to fpin ;
and, to preferve a regular heat, ftove fires are placed at
the corners of the room, or elfe a warming pan is carried
up and down it ^ but it muft not have the leaf! flame or Silk,
fmoke. Cow-dung dried in the fun is efteemed the moft ‘|1T' 1
proper fuel.
The worms eat equally day and night. The Chinefe
give them on the firft day forty-eight meals, that is, one
every half hour ; the next thirty } the third day they
have ftill lefs. As cloudy and rainy weather takes away
their flomach, juft before their repaft a wifp of very dry
ftraw, the flame of which muft be all alike, is held over
the worms to free them from the cold and moifture that
benumbs them, or elfe the blinds are taken from the
window's to let in the full day-light.
Eating fo often haftens their growth, on which the
chief profit of the filk w'orm depends. If they come to
maturity in 23 or 25 days, a large fheet of paper cover¬
ed with worms, which at their firft coming from the
eggs weigh little more than a drachm, will produce 25
ounces of filk ; but if not till 28 days, they then yield
only 20 ounces j and if they are a month or 40 days in
growing, they then produce but ten.
They are kept extremely clean, and are often remo¬
ved 5 and when they are pretty well grown, the worms
belonging to one hurdle are divided into three, after¬
wards they are placed on fix, and fo on to the number
of 20 or more ; for being full of humours, they muft be
kept at a due diftance from each other. The critical
moment for removing them is when they are of a bright
yellow and ready to fpin ; they muft be furrounded with
mats at a fmall diftance, wdiich muft cover the top of
the place to keep off the outward air ; and becaufe they
love to work in the dark. However, after the third
day’s labour, the mats are taken away from one o’clock
till three, but the rays of the fun muft not fhine upon
them. They are at this time covered with the (beets of
paper that were ufed on the hurdles.
The cocoons are completed in feven days, after which
the worm is metamorphofed into a chryfalis ; the co¬
coons are then gathered, and laid in heaps, having firft
fet apart thofe defigned for propagation upon a hurdle,
in a cool airy place. The next care is to kill the moths
in thofe cones which are not to be bored. The belt
w'ay of doing this is to fill large earthen veffels with
cones in layers of ten pounds each, throwing in four
ounces of fait with every layer, and covering it with
large dry leaves like thofe of the water-lily, and clofely
flopping the mouth of the veffels. But in laying the
cones into the veffels, they feparate the long, white,
and glittering ones, which yield a very fine filk, from
thofe that are thick, dark, and of the colour of the (kin
of an onion, which produce a coarfer filk. 5
The filk worm is a fpecies of caterpillar, which, like Defcription
all others of the fame clafs, undergoes a variety of^^^y
changes, that, to perfons who are not acquainted with worm> ‘
obiefts of this kind, will appear to be not a little fur-
prifing.
It is produced from a yellowifli-coloured egg, about
the fize of a fmall pin-head, which has been laid by aTheBee^
kind of grayifh-coloured moth, which the vulgar con- 7**
found with the butterfly.
Thefe eggs, in the temperature of this climate, if
kept beyond the reach of the fire and funffiine, may be
preferved during the whole of the winter and. fpring
months without danger of hatching : and even in fum¬
mer they may eafily be prevented from hatching if they
be kect in a cool place ; but in warmer climates it ;s
A fcarcely
S 1 L [ 3
^ fcarcely pofiible to preferve them from hatching, even
for a few days, or from drying fo much as to deftroy
them. Hence it is eafy for a native of Britain to keep
the eggs till the food on which the worm is to feed be
ready for that purpofe. When this food is in perfec¬
tion, the eggs need only be expofed to the fun for a day
or two, when they will be hatched with great facility.
, When the animal is firft protruded from the egg, it
is a fmail black worm, which is adfive, and naturally af-
cends to the top of the heap in fearch of food. At this
flage of his growth the filk worm requires to be fed
with the youngeft and mart tender leaves. On thefe
leaves, if good, he will feed very freely for about eight
days, during which period he increafes in fize to about
a quarter of an inch in length. He is then attacked
with his firft ficknefs, which confifts in a kind of le¬
thargic fleep for about three days continuance j during
which time he refufes to eat, and changes his fldn, pre^
ferving the fame bulk. This fleep being over, he begins
to eat again, during five days, at which term he is
grown to the fize of full half an inch in length ; after
which follows a fecond ficknefs in every refpeft like
the former.
He then feeds for other five days; during which time
he will have increafed to about three quarters of an inch
in length, when he is attacked with his third ficknefs.
1 his being over, he begins to eat again, and continues
to do fo for five days more, when he is attacked by his
.i<jur..h ficknefs, at which time he is arrived at his full
gio.stn. . W hen he recovers this ficknefs, he feeds once
inore during five days with a moft voracious appetite ;
after which he difdains his food, becomes tranfparent,
a little on the yellowilh caft, and leaves his filky traces
on the leaves where he paffes. Thefe figns denote that
he is ready to begin his cocoon, and will eat no more.
1 nus it appears that the whole duration of the life
o. the worm, in th:s-ftate of its exiftence, in our climate,
is ufually about 46 days ; 28 of which days he takes
food, and remains in his fick or torpid ftate 18; but it
is to be obferved, that during warm weather the periods
ci licknefs are fiiortened, and in cold weather lengthen¬
ed, above the terms here fpecified. In very hot cli¬
mates it may be faid to live fafter, and fooner to attain
maturity, thap in thofe that are colder. Dr Anderfon
informs us, that at Madras the worm undergoes its
whole evolutions in the fpace of 22 days. It appears,
however, that it feeds fully as many days in India as in
Europe, the difference being entirely occafioned bv
ftiortening the period of ficknefs. The longeft ficknefs
he had feen them experience there did not exceed two
days; and during fummer it only lafts a few hours.
When the worm has attained its full growth, it
searches about for a convenient place for forming its co-
'Coon, and mounts upon any branches or twigs that are
put in its way for that purpofe. After about two days
ipent in this manner, it fettles in its place, and forms
53 ] . S I L
the cocoon, by winding the filk which it draws from siHt.
its boweis round itfelf into an oblong roundilh ball.   v 
During this operation it gradually lofes the appear-
a.n.c<: ofra worm ’ *ts length is much contra&ed, and its
thicknefs augmented. By the time the web is finilhed,
it is found to be transformed into an oblong roundilh
ball, covered with a fmooth fiielly fldn, and appears to
be perfectly dead. In this ftate of exiftence it is called
an aure/ia. Many animals in this ftate may be often
leen flicking on the walls of out-houfes, fomewhat re-
iembhng a finall bean.
. 1‘1 Jh!s ftate it; remains for fevetal days entirely mo-
tionlets in the heart of the cocoon, after which it burtts
like an egg hatching, and from that comes forth a
heavy dull-looking, moth with wings ; but thefe wings
it never ufes for dying; it only crawls flowly about in
tne place it has been hatched. This creature forces its
way through the filk covering which the worm had
woven, goes immediately in queft of its mate, after
which the female lays her eggs; and both male and fe¬
male, without tailing food in this ftage of their exift¬
ence, die in a very Ihort time.
. '[he mk worm* when at its full fize, is from an
inch and a quarter to an inch and a half in length, and
about half an inch in circumference. He is either of a
milk or pearl colour, or blackifti; thefe laft are efteem-
cd the beft. His body is divided into feven rings to
each of which are joined two very Ihort feet. He has
a imall point like a thorn exactly above the anus. The
mbftance which forms the filk is in his ftomach, which
is very long, wound up, as it were, upon two fpindles,
as lome fay, and furrounded with a gum, commonly yel-
lowifti, fometimes white, but feldo'm greenifti. When
the worm fpins. his cocoon, he winds off a thread from
each of his fpindles, and joins them afterwards by
means of two hooks which are placed in his mouth, fo
that the cocoon is formed of a double thread. Havina
opened a filk worm, you may take out the fpindlesq
which are folded up in three plaits, and, on ftretching
them out, and drawing each extremity, you may extend
them to near two ei;s in length. If you then ferape the
thread fo ftretclied out with your nail, you ferape off
the gum, which is very like bees xvax, and performs
the fame office to the filk it covers as gold leaf does to
the ingot of filver it fir rounds, when drawn out by the
iMie drawer. I his thread, wffiich is extremely ftronor
and even, is about tne thicknefs of a middling pin.
Of fiik worms, as of moft other animals, there is a Particular
confiderable variety of breeds, fome of which are much attention
moie hardy, and poflefs qualities confiderably different 10 he
ftom others. 1 his is a particular of much importance Pa1^ the
to be adverted to at the time of beginning to breed cnTf-ofm-?
t icie creatures in any place ; for it will make a great
difference in the profit on the whole to the undertaker
if he rears a good or a bad fort (a). This is a department
in refpeft to the economy of animals that has been in
every
tliebreed ofm>n”’!t !,of ^ «<>
warm
s I L , [ 359
Silk. every cafe much kfs adverted to than it deferves j and in
v ' particular with regard to the hlk worm it has been al-
moft entirely overlooked. A few eggs of the filk worm
can be eafrly tra'niported by poll in a letter from any
part of Europe to another, efpecially during the winter
feafon. It would therefore be an eafy matter for any
patriotic fociety, fuch as the Society of Arts in Lon¬
don, to obtain a fpecimen of the eggs from every coun¬
try in which filk is now reared, to put thefe under the
care of a perfon who could be depended upon, and who
underftood the management of them, with orders to
keep each kind diftindt from another, and advert to every
particular that occurred in their management, fo as to
make a fair eftimate of their refpcftive merits. Ey thefe
means the beft might be feledled, and thofe of inferior
value rejected. Forty or fifty of each lort might be
enoifgh for the experiment; but it ought to be repeat¬
ed feveral times before conclufions could be drawn from
it that might be altogether relied upon •, for it is well
known that a variation of circumltances will moke a
change in the refult *, and it is by no means certain that
the lame particular wmuld affedt thofe of one breed ex-
adtly in the fame manner as it would do thofe of a dif¬
ferent breed. One may be more hardy wrilh regard to
cold, another more delicate in refpedt to food, and fo
on. It is experience alone that can afcertain the cir-
cumftanbes here inquired for.
From the above-mentioned particulars, it is evi¬
dent, that the management of fiik worms muft be very
different in hot climates from what is required in thofe
that are colder. At Madras, it appears from Dr An-
derfon’s experiments that it is very difficult to prevent
in different the eggs from hatching for a very few days, fo that
eiimatcs; many generations of them muff be propagated in one
year. “ In this hotteft feafon,” fays he, in a letter to
Sir Jofeph Banks, dated July 6. 1791, “ the fnorteft
time I have been able to remark for the whole evolu¬
tions of the filk worm is 40 days*, that is to fay, fix
days an egg, 22 a worm, 11 a grub in the cocoon,
and one a moth or butterfly.” Fortunately, where the
climate forces forward their produftion fo rapidly, na¬
ture hath been equally provident of food for their fub-
fiflence \ for in thefe regions the mulberry continues to
8 grow and puffi out leaves throughout the whole year,
but maybe Though the filk worm be a native of China, there
taffy rear- is no doubt but it might eafily be propagated perhaps
cd in tem- jn mo{q parts ®f the temperate zones. The eggs of
this infefl, indeed, require a confiderable degree of
warmth to hatch them, but they can alfo endure a fe-
vere froft. No lefs than 540olbs of filk were raifed in
1789 in the cold, fandy territories of Pruflia. In the
province of Pekin, in China, where great quantities of
filk are fabricated, the winter is much colder than even
in Scotland. From the information of fome Ruffians
who were fent thither to learn the Chinefe language, we
find that Reaumur’s thermometer was obferved from 10
to 15, and even 20 degrees below the freezing point.
N° Nor is it difficult to rear the food of the filk worm in
156. a temperate clime. The mulberry, tree is a hardy vege-
Siik.
7
Tlie ma¬
nagement
of filk
worms
muft be
d fferent
perate
climes.
] S I L
table, which hears, without injury, the winters of Sweden,
and even of Siberia. Of the (even fpeciesof the rnulber- y m'"*
ry (fee Morus) enumerated by Linnaeus, four of thefe
(viz. the white, red, black, and Tartarian), there is every
reafon to believe could be reared both in Britain and
Ireland. The white grows in Sweden j the red is a-
bundant round (Quebec ; the black delights in bleak fi-
tuations, expofed to wind on the fea iliore \ and the
Tartarian mulberry is reprefented as growing in the
chilly regions of Siberia. 9
As to the fuperior qualities of the different fpecies, Whether
probably there is very little to be pointed out amongft a‘.'y
the four juft mentioned with regard to nourifhment, ex-ry trce^e'
cept what may be drawn from the following fa£t: thatfUperior to
if the firft three are laid down together, the filk worm others,
will firft eat the white, then the red, and next the black,
in the order of the tendernefs of the leaves. The Tar¬
tarian feerns to hold as high a place in its efteem as ei¬
ther the red or black ; but all muft yield to the white,
wThich feems to be its natural food.
In Calabria the red mulberry is ufed \ in Valencia
the white j and in Granada, where excellent filk is pro¬
duced, the mulberries are all black. The white feems
to profper very well in a moift ft iff foil: the black agrees
well with a dry, fandy, or gravelly foil 3 and the white ■
is moft luxuriant in a moift rich loam. *io
It may juftly be afferted, that Britain poffeffes fome Britain pof-
advantages in the railing of raw filk which are not en‘ advanu^es
joyed by warmer countries. Even in the fouth °f over warm-
France, Mr Arthur Young informs us, the mulberry er countrie?
leaves are often nipped by froft in the bud 3 but this is tor railing
Icarcely ever the cafe with us. It is well known that^*
thunder and lightning are hurtful to the filk worm.
Now our climate can boaft that it is almoft: wholly ex¬
empted from thofe dreadful ftorms of thunder and light¬
ning which prevail fo much in hot climates. Nature
has then furnithed us with every thing requifite for the
filk manufadlure 3 it remains only for us to improve the
advantages which we poffefs. Let mulberry trees be
planted by proprietors of lands, and let a few perfons
of fkill and attention devote their time to the raifing of
filk worms. This is an employment that will not in¬
terfere with any manufafture already eftablifhed 3 on the
contrary, it would afford a refpeflable, a lucrative, and
agreeable employment to ladies, or to females in gene¬
ral, who have at prefent too few profeffions to which
they can apply. The fociety inftituted at London for
the encouragement of arts, manufadtures, and com¬
merce, much to their honour, have offered premiums
to thofe who fhall plant a certain number of mulberry
trees. j r
The following method of raifing mulberry trees from Method of
feed is praclifed in the fouth of France, and has been railing
repeated with fuccefs in the Eaft Indies by Dr Ander-
fon of Madras. “ Take the ripe berries of the mulber-fmjJj 0£
ry when it is full of juice and of feeds. Next take a'France,
rough horfe-hair line or rope, fuch as we dry linen on, i^ettcVi :n
and with a good handful of ripe mulberries run your t/_,e Culture
hand along the line bruifing the berries and m a firing of Raw
them Silk 011 the
■ Coajl of Co-
 - roman del.
warm renew it. Place the earthen veffels in the coldeft place of the fhip, and let them remain until the end of
the voyage. It muft be obferved, that the ftiip chofen for this parpofe ought to bs one that would arrive in Britain
in the months of June or July.
'Silk,
Bee, N° 70
12
Mifs
Rhodes fed
filk worms
on lettuce
tor fome
time.
13
General
Mordaunt
ftill more
fuccefsful.
[ •
tliem as much as pofTible as your hand runs along, lb
' that the pulp and feeds of the berries may adhere in
great abundance to the rope or hair line. Next dig a
trench in the ground where you with to plant them,
much like what is praftifed in kitchen gardens in Eng¬
land for crops of various kinds. Next cut the rope or
hair line into lengths according to the length of the
trench you think fit to make, and plunge the line full
of mafhed berries into the trench, and then cover it over
wrell with earth, always remembering afterwards to wa¬
ter it well, which is effential to the luccefs. The feeds
of the berries thus fown will grow', and foon Ihoot out
young fuckers, which wall bear young leaves, which are
the belt food for the filk worm. «
“ The facility and rapidity with winch young leaves
may by this means be produced is evident, for as many
rows of trenches may thus be filled as can be wiflied j
and it can never be neceffary to have mulberry trees
higher than our rafpberries, currants, or goofeberry bulli¬
es. Whenever they get beyond that, they lofe their
value •, and if thefe trenches fucceed, you may have a
fupply coming frelh up day after day, or any quantity
you pleafe.” Thus abundance of thefe trees might be
reared. But as mulberry trees are not yet found in abun¬
dance in this country, it were to be wilhed that fome
other food could be fubftituted in their place : attempts
have accordingly been made by thofe who have reared
filk wmrms, and it has been found polfible to fupport
the filk worm upon lettuce (b).
Mifs Henrietta Rhodes, a lady who has made fome
fuccefsful experiments on railing filk worms in England,
had found that the filk worm could with fafety be kept
on lettuce for fome time. This is pretty generally
knowm by ladies who have turned their attention to this
fubjeft 5 but Hie found that in general they could not
with fafety be kept upon that food above three wrecks.
If longer fed upon that plant, the wTorms for the moft
part die without fpinning a web at all. She found,
however, that they did not always die, but that in fome
cafes they produced very good cocoons, even w'hen fed
entirely on lettuce. She therefore with reafon fufpeft-
ed that the death of the animal muft be occafioned by
fome extraneous circumftance, and not from the poi-
fonous quality of the food itfelf j the circumftance Ihe
fufpefted, from fome incidental obfervations, was the
coldnefs of that food ; and therefore fire thought it was
not impoflible, but if they wrere kept in a very warm
place, while fed on lettuce, they might attain, in all
cafes, a due perfection.
General Mordaunt having been informed of this con¬
jecture, refolved to try the experiment. He got fome
filk worms eggs, had them hatched in his hot-houfe, and
caufed them to be all fed upon lettuce and nothing elfe.
They profpered as well as any w'orms could do, few or
none or them died j and they afforded as fine cocoons
as if they had been fed upon mulberry leaves. As far
as one experiment can go, this affords a very exhilara¬
ting profpeCt in many points of view. If one kind of
j s I JL
food has been noxious, merely on account of an impro- SHE
per temperature, others may be found which have been J
hurtful only from a fimilar caufe; fo that it is not im-
poftible but we may at laft find that this delicate crea¬
ture may be fupported by a variety of kinds of food.
Few, however, could be more eafily obtained than let¬
tuce , and this plant, when cabbaged (fthe cols, or ice
lettuce efpecially), would poffefs one quality that the
mulberry leaf never can poffefs, from the W'ant of which
many millions of wrorms die in thofe countries where
filk is now reared j for it is obferved, that when the
leaves are gathered w^et, it is fcarcely poftible to pre-
ferve the worms alive for any length of time ; fo that
during a continuance of rainy w’eather many of them
are unavoidably cut off; but a lettuce, when cabbaged,
refills moilture. If gathered, even during rain, the
heart of it is dry ; fo that if the outer leaves be thrown
afide at that time, the worms would be continued in
perfeft health. The expence, too, of cultivating and
gathering lettuce, would be fo much lefs than that of
gathering mulberry leaves, as to occafion a faving that
would be much more than fufficient to counterbalance
the expence of heating the confervatory, as a little re¬
flexion will fhowx
But the great point to be now afeertained is, whe¬
ther it is a faX that w'orms fed on lettuce, ii kept in a
due temperature, will continue in good health, in gene¬
ral, till they lhall have perfeXed their cocoon r* One
experiment is too little to eftabliih this faX with perfeX
certainty. It would therefore be neceffary that more
experiments Ihould be made on this fubjeX. 14
It is faid that Dr Lodovico Bellardi, a learned and worms
ingenious botanift of Turin, has, after a number of ex-fai,d t0 i56
periments, difeovefed a new method of feeding filk mulberry
wTorms, when they are hatched before the mulberry leaves. *
trees have produced leaves, or when it happens that
the froft deftroys the tender branches. This new me¬
thod confifts in giving the wmrms dried leaves of the
mulberry-tree, One would think that this dry nourifti-
ment would not be much reliftied by thefe infeXs; but
repeated experiments made by our author, prove that
they prefer it to any other, and eat it with the greateft
avidity. The mulberry leaves muft be gathered about
the end of autumn, before the frofts commence, in dry
weather, and at times when the heat is greateft. They
muft be dried afterwards in the fun, by fpreading them
upon large cloths, and laid up in a dry place after they
have been reduced to pow'der. When it is neceffary to
give this powder to the worms, it fhould be gently moi-
ftened with a little water, and a thin coat of it muft be
placed around the young w'orms, which will immediate¬
ly begin to feed upon it.
We have mentioned all the different kinds of food, Proper ex-
which, as far as we have heard, have been tried writhPenmeilts
any fuccefs to nourifti the filk worm j not, however,0URht t0 bc
with great confidence, but as experiments which it migh t ^an^iis've-
be worth while carefully to confider and perform. Wegetables.
muft not omit to mention that one perfon, who has had
much
(b) It is not improbable, fays Dr Anderfon, to whofe valuable work entitled the Bee, we have been much
indebted in the drawing up of this article, that other kinds of food may be found which will anfwer the fame
purpofe. The chicorium intybus and common endive might be tried, as they have the fame laXefcent quality with
the lettuce.
Silk.
§ I L [361
much experience in the managing of fiik worms, affures
us, that the {ilk produced from any other food than
mulberry leaves is of an inferior quality, and that the
worms are lickly. We think, however, that there is
reafon to fufpedt that the experiment has not been ikil-
fully performed ; and therefore, before every other food
except mulberry leaves is difcarded, the experiment
ought to be performed with more attention and care.
We know that many animals in a domelfic date can live
upon food very different from that which fupported
them when running wild in the fields. Certain it is,
however, that every animal, in its date of nature, par¬
takes of a food peculiar to itfelf, which is rejected by
other animals as if it were of a poifonous quality ; and
it may be mentioned as a curious fact, as well as an ad¬
mirable indance of the care of that Being who feeds
the fowls of heaven, that notwithbarding the number-
lefs infedls that prey upon animals and vegetables, the
mulberry tree is left untouched by them all, as the ex-
clufive property of the filk worm, the chief of the infetl
tribe, which toils and fpins for the ufe of man.
Having now confidered the food proper for the filk
worm, we fhall next confider what fi'uation is mod fa-
proper^kH voura^e to them. In the opinion of fome perfons in
thetein- this country who have been in the practice of rearing
filk worms, they ought always to be kept in a dry place,
well bickered, and poffeffing a confiderable degree of
warmth, and which is not expofed to bidden tranfitions
from heat to cold. If the weather be too cold, a fmall
fire mud be made : this is of mod importance when the
]
S I L
Silk.
Tf)
What (dila¬
tion and
feeds.
Mr
Swayne’s
apparatus
defciibed.
worms are ready for fpinning. A fouthern expofure
is therefore preferable. Some think light is of great
utility to filk worms, others think that they thrive bet¬
ter in the dark. As to what apartments are bed ac¬
commodated for promoting the health of filk worms,
and mod convenient for thofe who have the care of them,
they may be various according to the extent of the ma-
nufaflure or the wealth of the proprietors. Silk worms
may be kept in boxes or in (helves. When (helves are
to be ufed, they may be condruebed in the following
manner : The (helves may be of wicker, ranged at the
didance of a foot and a half, and fixed in the middle of
the room : their breadth ought to be fucb, that any per-
fon can eafily reach to the middle from either fide. This
is perhaps the fimpled and cheaped apparatus for rear¬
ing filk worms ; but there is another apparatus which
may be recommended to thofe who are anxious to unite
fome degree of elegance with convenience. This appa¬
ratus is the invention of the Rev. George Swayne of
Puckle-church, a gentleman who has Hudied this fub-
je£I much, in order to find out the way for promoting
the culture of filk among the poor. This apparatus,
with the defeription of it, may be found in the Tranf-
a&ions of the Society for encouraging Arts, Manufac¬
tures, and Commerce, voh vii. p. 148. The apparatus
confids of a wooden frame four feet two inches high,
each fide 16 inches and a half wide, divided into eight
partitions by fmall pieces of wood which form grooves,
into which the bides run, and are thus eafily thrub into
or drawn out of the frame. The upper bide in the mo¬
del fent to the fociety by Mr Swayne is of paper only,
and defigned to receive the worms as foon as hatched 5
the two next are of catgut, the threads about one-tenth
of an inch didant from each other : thefe are for the
infefts when a little advanced in fize ; the five lower
Vol. XIX. Part I.
iS
ones are of wicker work ; but, as Mr Swayne afterwards
found, netting may be (ubdituted with advantage in-
ftead of wicker bottoms. Under each of thefe, as well
as under thofe of catgut, are biders made of paper, to
prevent the dung o( the worms from falling on thofe
(ceding below them.
The management of filk worms is next to be attend-Pr°per time
ed to. The proper time for hatching them is when the liatcllins
leaves of the mulberry are full grown, or nearly fo j worms,
that as (oon as thefe infeeds are capable of receiving foed
they may obtain it in abundance. To attempt to hatch
them iooner would be hurtful, as the weather woulo not
be fufficiently warm. Befides, as leaves are necef-
fary to the life of a vegetable, if the young leaves of
the mulberry tree are cropped as foon as they are un¬
folded, the tree will be fo much weakened as to be in¬
capable of producing fo many leaves as it would other-
wife have done ; and if this pradice be frequently re¬
peated, will inevitably be dedroyed.
When the proper feafon is arrived, the eggs may be Hew they
hatched either by the heat of the fun, when it happens ought to i»e
to be ftrong enough, or by placing them in a (mailhatche£l
room moderately heated by a dove or fire; and after be- anc*
ing expofed for fix or (even days to a gentle heat, the
filk worm iiTues from the egg in the form of a fmall
black hairy caterpillar. When Mr Swayne’s apparatus
is ufed, the worms are to be kept on the drawers with
paper bottoms till they are grown fo large as not rea¬
dily to creep through the gauze-bottomed drawers :
they are then to be placed on thofe drawers, where they
are to remain till their excrements are fo large as not
readily to fall through ; when this is the cafe, they mud
be removed to the drawers with the wicker or netting
bottoms, and fed thereon, till they thorv fymptoms of be¬
ing about to fpin. It is fcarcely necefiary to mention,
that the paper Aides beneath the gauze and wicker draw¬
ers are intended to receive the dung, which (hould be
emptied as often as the worms are fed, at lead once a-
day 5 or to direcd, that when the worms are fed, the
Aides are to be fird drawn out a confiderable way, and
the drawers to red upon them. ^
It has been already mentioned, that w^et or damp Wet or
food is exceedingly prejudicial to thofe infedls. It pro-damP food
duces contagious and fatal difeafes. To prevent the Proc!uce.s
neceffity of giving them wet or damp food, attention SifeSs™3
ought to be paid to the weather, fo that when there is
an immediate profpeid of rain, a fufficient quantity of
leaves may be gathered to ferve the worms two or three
days. In this country, the leaves of the black or red
mulberry tree may be preferved good for food, although
kept four or five days, by the following method : When
new gathered, lay them loofely in glazed earthen vef-
fels, place thefe in a cold place, well aired, not expofed
to drought.
The utmoft attention mud be paid to preferve the Ought to
place where filk worms are kept as clean as poflible : the be
houfe or room mud be well ventilated, that no noxiouscIean a3
vapours be accumulated. By fome experiments of M. t:o£EbI^
Faujas de St bond, which are recorded in his hidoiy of
Languedoc, it appears that the filk worm is much injur-
cd by foul air. Ail decayed leaves mud be removed
from them, as it is now well known that they emit bad
air in great abundance
One of the mod didicult branches of the management
of filk worms has hitherto been the cleaning without
Z> & bruifina;
Silk.
Bee, N° 95.
22
How they
may be
cleaned
without
bruifing
them.
S I L [ 362 ] S I L
bruifing them. To avoid this inconvenience, the pea-
fants in France and Italy frequently allow the whole lit¬
ter to remain without ever cleaning them, which is the
caufe of that unwholefome flench that has been fo often
remarked by thofe who vifit the places for rearing frik
worms' in thefe countries. This difficulty may be ‘ef¬
fectually removed by providing a net, or, what would
be dill better, a wire-bottomed frame, wrought into
large mefhes like a riddle. Have that made of a fize
exa&ly fuffcient to cover the wooden box in which the
worms are kept. When you mean to fhift them, fpread
freih leaves into the wire bafket; and let it down gent¬
ly over the worms till it comes within their reach.
They no fooner perceive the frefh food than they aban¬
don the rubbith below, and creep through the mefhes,
fo as to fix themfelves upon the leaves; then by gently
raifing the frefh bafket, and drawing cut the board be¬
low’ (which ought to be made to flip out like the flip-
bottom of a bird’s cage), you get off all the excrements
and decayed leaves, without incommoding the wmrms in
the fmalleft degree ; and along with the litter you will
draw off an inch or tw’o in depth of the fouled mephitic
vapours. To get entirely rid of thefe, the board, when
thus taken out, fhould be carried without doors, and
there cleaned ; and the flip-board immediately replaced
to receive all the excrements and offals. After it is re¬
placed, the wire frame that had been elevated a little,
may be allow’ed to defeend to a convenient diftance
above the board wdthout touching it. Thus wdll there
be left a vacant fpace for the mephitic air to fall below
the worms, fo as to allow them to inhabit a wholefome
region of the atmofphere.
When a freih fupply of food is to be given before
cleaning, the wdre frame ought to be let down as clofe
to the board as can be fafely done, and another wire-
bottomed frame put over it, with frefk leaves, as before
deferibed. When the worms have abandoned that in
their turn, let the flip-board, together wdth the lower
wire frame, be drawn out and removed, and fo on as
often as neceffary. To admit of this alternate change,
every table, confifting of one flip-board, ought to have
two lets of wire-bottomed frames of the fame fize *, the
iiip-board to be always put into its place immediately
after it is cleaned, and the wire frames referved to be
afterwards placed over the other. By this mode of ma¬
nagement, it is probable that the worms W’ould be faved
from the difeafes engendered by the mephitic air, and
the numerous deaths that are the confequence of it avoid-
Silk.
Dr Anderfon, to whom we have already acknowled-Qaicki;me
ged our obligations, and to whom this country has been would ab-
much indebted for valuable works on agriculture, the t‘ie
fifheries, &c. advifes thofe who have the management
of filk worms to drew a thin flratum of frefh flaked rounds
quicklime upon the flip-board eacB time it is cleaned, them,
immediately before it is put into its place. This would
abforb the mephitic gas, for as foon as it is generated it
would defeend upon the furface of the quicklime. Thus
would the worms be kept continually in an atmofphere
of pure air (c). Were the walls of the apartments to
be frequently waflied with quicklime and water, it would
tend much to promote cleanlinefs at a fmall expence,
and augment the healthinefs of the worms as well as
that of the perfons who attend them.
When the filk worm refufes its food, and leaves filky Mr
traces on the leaves over which it paffes, it is a proof Swajne’s
that it is ready to begin its cocoon. It is now neceffa-£eceP^aCie
ry to form a new receptacle, which is commonly done
by pinning together papers in the fhape of inverted cones when /o-
with broad bafes. “ This method (fays Mr Swayne), ing to (pin.
where there are many worms, is exceedingly tedious,
waftes much paper, and ufes a large number of pins j t/onj of the
befides, as the filk worm always weaves an outer cover- Society for
ing of defenfive web before it begins the cocoon or ^
oval ball, I apprehended that it caufed a needlefs wafle 0j- jrtSt VoL
of filk in forming the broad web at the top. The me-vii. p. 123.
thod I make ufe of is, to roll a fmall piece of paper (an
uncut oftavo leaf, fuch as that of an old magazine, is
fuffreient for three), round my fore-finger, and to give
it a twill at the bottom j which is done with the utmoft
expedition, and gives no occafion for the ufe of pins.
Thefe rolled paper-cafes being likewife of a form more
nearly refembling that of a cocoon, with a much narrow¬
er opening on the top than the others, takes away the
neceflity of wafting much filk in the outer web, and
confequently leaves more to be employed in forming the
ball. The filk is readily taken out of thefe cafes by
untwifting the bottom ; and if this be done with mo¬
derate care, and the papers are preferved, they will ferve
feveral times for the like purpofe.”
Others advife, that when the filk worms are preparing Others re-
to fpin, little bulhes of heath, broom, or twigs, Ihould commend
bufhes of
heath.
(c) To put this queftion beyond a doubt, Mr Blancard made the following comparative experiments, which
were feveral times repeated. “ I procured (fays he) four glafs jars nine inches high and five in diameter, doling
the mouth with cork Hoppers. After which I placed in each of them, in their fecond life (fo mue may be tranflat-
ed which means the ftage between the different fickneffes), twelve filk worms, which were fed four times a-day ;
and which I confined in this kind of prifon all their life, without taking away either their dead companions or their
ordure or litter. I fprinkled with chalk the worms of only two of thefe jars, and kept the two others to compare
with them. . „ , . rr, ,
“ In thofe without lime, I never obtained either more or lefs than three fmall and imperfect cocoons {cniquef
*u boitjfard'), and in the two that were fprinkled with lime, I had very often twelve, and never lefs than nine fine
full-fized firm cocoons.” _ _ . r.-iu
This experiment affords the moft fatisfaftory proof of the utility of this procefs. From a number ot trials he
found, that even when the worms were covered with a large proportion of lime, they never were in any way in¬
commoded by it.
Siik.
16
How (ilk
when af-
fetfted by
thunder.
vol. ii.
. 27
Different
kinds of
eocoons.
S I L [3
be ftuck uprigbt near tbe flielf or box in which they
are inclofed : the worms mount thefe, and attach their
web to them.
When the worms are ready to mount, in order to
worms may {pin, if the weather be hot, attended with thunder, you
be revived wjll fee them in a languifliing condition ; your care muft
then be to revive them, which is efFefled thus: Take a
few eggs and onions, and fry them in a pan with fame
. ftale hog’s lard, the ranker the better, and make pan-
tionsof thec'A^ > which done, carry it fmoaking hot into the room
American where they are kept, and go round the chamber with
Philofophi- it. You will be i'urprifed to fee how the fmell revives
cal^ Society, t]iernj excites thofe to eat who have not done feeding,
and makes the others that are ready to fpin climb up
the twigs.
In about ten or twelve days, according to the ac¬
counts wdiich we have received from Mr Andrew Wright
of Paifley, it may be fafely concluded, that if the worms
have finilhed their work, the cocoons may be collefted.
We lhall now diftinguifh the cocoons from one ano¬
ther according to their value or their ufe, and confider
the method of managing each. They may be diftin-
guifhed into the good and bad. The good cocoons may
be known by thefe marks : they are little, ftrong, and
firm ; have a fine grain, both ends are round, and they
are free from fpots. Among the good cocoons alfo may
be arranged thofe which are called calcined cocoons, in
which the worm, in confequenee of ficknefs, is petrified
or reduced to a fine powder. Thefe cocoons produce
more filk than others, and are fold in Piedmont at half
as much again. They may be diftinguifined by the noife
which the wmrm makes when the cocoon is fhaken. Of
the bad cocoons there are fix fpecies : 1. The pointed co-
coons, one extremity of which ends in a point; the filk
which covers the point is weak, and foon breaks or tears.
2. The cocalons, w’hich are bigger, but the contexture is
weak. 3. The dupions, or double cocoons, which have
been formed by the joint labour of two and fometimes
of three worms. 4. The foufflons, w*hich have a loofe con¬
texture, fometimes fo loo{e that they are tranfparent,
5. The perforated cocoons, which, have a hole at one end.
6. The bad choquette, which is compofed of defective
cocoons, fpotted or rotten. Befides thefe there is the good
choquette, which does not properly belong to either of
thele two claffes : it is formed of thofe cocoons in which
the worm dies before the filk is brought to perfeftion.
The worms adhere to one fide of the cocoon, and there¬
fore when the cocoon is fiiaken will not rattle : the
filk is as fine, but is not of fo bright a colour, nor is fo
llrong and nervous, as that which is obtained from good
cocoons.
The cocoons which are kept for breeding are called
royal cocoons. For felefting and preferving thefe, wo
for feleftinghavc been favoured with feme valuable infiruftions by
anr>preferv-Mr Wright of Paifiey, which we {hall prefent to our
ing the roy-readers.—The largeft and heft cocoons ought to be
at cocoons, kept for breed, about an equal number of males and
females; the cocoons that contain the former are {harp¬
er pointed at the ends than thofe that contain the lat¬
ter. Although it ihouid happen that there are more
females than males, little inconvenience or ill confe-
quences can avife from it, as one male will fierve two or
three females, if the time of their coming out of the
cocoons anfwer, About 12 or 15 days after they be¬
gin to fpin, the cocoons for breed may be laid on {beets
63 1
S I L
aS
Mr
Wright's
inftru<£tions
of wdiite paper j about this time the moth opens for it- Silk,
felf a paflage through the end of its cocoon, and ifiues
out. When the female has laid her eggs, wdiich on an
average may amount to 250, they are fpread upon Iheets
of paper and hung up to dry in fome place where they
may not be expofed to the heat of the fun : after being
dried they muft be kept in a cool well-aired place,
where neither vapours nor moifiure can reach them.
That they may be preferved from external accidents, as
infedls of different kinds will deftroy them, and mice is
their enemy in all the ftages of their exiftence, they
fhould be kept in ftone pots or glafs bottles with their
mouths flopped, and there remain until brought out next
feafon to be hatched. 2a
The cocoons from which the filk is to be immediate-How to
ly wround muft be expofed to the heat of an oven, in or- PrcPare
der to kill the chryfalis or aurelia, which would other-0l
wife eat its way through the cocoon, and render it ufe- wound.
lefs. The follow'ing direftions are given for managing
this procefs by one of the firft filk manufaflures in Italy.
Put your cocoons in long fhallow balkets, and fill Tranfac-
them within an inch of the top. You then covertiom °f ^
them up with paper, avid put a wrapper over that. Thefe
bafkets are to be difpofed in an oVen, w7hofe heat is as^/ Society,
near as can be that of an oven from which the bread is vol. ii.
juft drawn after being baked. When your cocoons have
remained therein near an hour, you muft draw them out;
and to fee whether all the worms are dead, draw out a
dupion from the middle of your balket and open it : if
the worm be dead, you may conclude all the reft are fo ;
becaufe the contexture of the dupion being fironger
than that of the other cocoons, it is confequently lefs
eafy to be penetrated by the heat. You muft obferve
to take it from the middle of the balket, becaufe in
that part the heat is leaft perceptible. After you have
drawn your balkets from the oven, you muft firft cover
each of them with a woollen blanket or rug, leaving
the wrapper befides, and then you pile them above one
another. If your baking has fucceeded, your woollen
cover will be all over wet with a kind of dew, the
thicknefs of your little finger. If there be lefs, it is
a fign your cocoons have been too much or too little ba¬
ked. If too much baked, the wmrm, being over-dried,
cannot tranfpire a humour he no longer contains, and
your cocoon is then burnt. If not enough baked, the
worm has not been fufficiently penetrated by the heat
to diftil the liquor he contains, and in that cafe is not
dead.
You muft let your balkets ftand thus covered five or
fix hours if poflible, in order to keep in the heat, as this
makes an end of ftifiing thofe worms which might have
avoided the firft impreflion of the fire. You are like-
wile to take great care to let your cocoons ftand in the
oven the time that is neceffary 5 for if they do not ftand
long enough, your worms are only ftunned for a time
and w-ill afterwards be revived. If, on the other hand,
you leave them too long in the oven, you burn them:
many inftances of thefe two cafes are frequently to be
met with. It is a good fign when you fee fome of the
butterflies fpring out from the cocoons which have been
baked, becaule you may be certain they are not burnt.
For if you would kill them all to the laft worm, you
would burn many cocoons which might be more expo-
fed to the heat than that particular worm.
The next operation is the w-inding of the filk. Be-
Z z 2 fore
S I L f 36+ ] S .1 L
Silk. fore you begin to wind, you mult prepare your cocoons
1 aS follows :
How^the I- ft ripping them of that wafte filk that furrounds
filk is to be them, and which ferved to fallen them to the twigs,
wound This burr is proper to fluff quilts, or other fuch ufes ;
from the vou joay like wife fpin it to make ftockinns, but they
cocoons. 1 r J j- 0 ^
will be coarse and ordinary.
2. You mull fort your cocoons, feparating them into
different claffes in order to wind them apart. Thefe
claffes are, the good white cocoons j the good co¬
coons of all the other colours ; the dupions ; the
cccalons, among which are included the weak cocoons ;
the good choquette ; and, laftly, the bad choquette.
In forting the cocoons, you will always find fome per¬
forated cocoons amongft them, whofe worm is already
born ; thofe you tnuft fet apart for fleuret. You will
likewife find fome foufflons, but very few.; for which
reason you may put them among the bad choq.uette,
and they run up into wafte.
The good cocoons, as well white as yellow, are the
eafieft to wind ; thofe which require the greatetl care
and pains are the cocalons ; you mull wind them in
cooler water than the others, and if you take care to
give them to a good windller, you will have as good
fiik from them as the reft. You muft likewife have
careful windlters for the dupions and choquettes. Thefe
two fpecies require hotter water than the common co¬
coons.
The good cocoons are to be wound in the following
manner : Firll, choofe an open convenient place for your
filature, the longer the better, if you intend to have
many furnaces and coppers. The building thould be
high and open on one fide, and walled on the other, as
well to fereen you from the cold winds and receive the
fun, as to give a free paffage to the fleam of your ba-
fons or coppers.
Thefe coppers or bafons are to be difpofed (when the
building will admit of h) in a row on each fide of the
filature, as being the moil convenient method of pla¬
cing them, for by that means in walking up and down
you fee vdiat every one is about. And thefe bafons
fhould be two and two together, with a chimney be¬
tween every couple.
Having prepared your reels (which are turned by
hands, and require a quick eye), and your fire being a
light one under every bafon, your windfler muft flay
till the rvater is as hot as it can be without boiling.
When every thing is ready, you throw into your ba¬
fons tvro or three handfuls of cacoons, which you
gently brufti over with a wifk about fix inches long,
cut ftumpy like a broom worn out : by thele means the
threads of the cocoons flick to the wifk. You mull
diffngage thefe threads from the wifk, and purge them
by drawing thefe ends with your fingers till they
come off entirely clean. This operation is called la
Battue.
When the threads are quite clear, you mufl pafs four
of them (if you will wind fine filk) through each of the
holes in a thin iron bar that is placed horizontally at
the edge of your bafon ; afterwards you twift the twTo
ends (which confifl of four cocoons each) twenty or
twenty-five times, that the four ends in each thread
may the better join together in crofting each other, and
that your filk may be plump, which otherwife would
.flat.
Your windfter mufl always have a bowl of cold ws- Silk.
ter by her, to dip her fingers in, and to fprinkle very 1 r-
often the faid bar, that the heat may not burn the
thread.
Your threads, when thus twilled, go upon two iron
hooks called rampins, which are placed higher, and
from thence they go upon the reel. At one end of
the axis of the reel is a cog-wheel, w’hich catching
in the teeth ol the pofl-rampin, moves it from the right
to the left, and confequently the thread that is upon it >
fo that your fuK. is wound on the reel crofsways,
and your threads form two hanks of about four fingers
broad.
As often as the cocoons you wind are done, or break
or diminifh only, you mull join frefh ones to keep up
the number requifite, or the proportion ; becaufe, as
the cocoons wind off, the thread being finer, you muff
join two cocoons half wound to replace a newT one :
Thus you may wind three new ones and two half
wound, and your filk is from four to five cocoons.
When you would join a frefh thread, you muft lay
one end on your finger, which you throw lightly on
the other threads that are winding, and it joins them
immediately, and continues to go up with the reft.
You muff not wind off your cocoons too bare or to
the laft, becaufe when they are near at an end, the
bairre, that is, the hufk, joins in with the ether threads,
and makes the filk foul and gouty.
When you have finiihed your firfl parcel, you muff
clean your bafons, taking out all the ftriped worms, as
well as the cocoons, on which there is a little filk,
which you firlt open and take out the worm, and then
throw them into a bafket by you, into which you like¬
wife caff the loofe fiik that comes off in making the
battue.
You then proceed as before with other two or three
handfuls of cocoons; you make a new battue ; you
purge them, and continue to wind the fame number of
cocoons or their equivalent, and fo to the end.
As was already mentioned, the windfler muft always
have a bowl of cold water by her, to fprinkle the bar,
to cool her fingers every time fhe dips them in the hot
water, and to pour into her bafon when neceffary, that
is, when her water begins to boil. You mull be very
careful to twift your threads a fufficient number of
times, about 25, otherwife your filk remains flat, in-
flead of being round and full ; befides, when the filk is
not well crofted, it never can be clean, becaufe a gout
or nub that comes from a cocoon will pafs through a
fmall number of thefe twills, though a greater will
flop it. Your thread then breaks, and you pafs what
foulnefs there may be in the middle of your reel be¬
tween the two hanks, which ferves for a head-band to
tie them.
You muft obferve that your w-ater be juft in a proper
degree of heat. When it is too hot, the thread is dead,
and has no body ; w7hen it is too cold, the ends which
form the thread do not join well, and form a harfli ill-
qualified fiik.
You muff change the wTater in your bafon four times
a day for your dupions and choquette, and twice only
for good cocoons when you wind fine filk ; but if you
wind coarfe filk, it is neceffary to change it three or
four times. For if you were not to change the water, the
filk would not be fo bright and gloffy, becaufe the worm
contained
s I L [ 355 ] SIM
snk,
Si! Id.
3T
What nuni'
ber of
worms pro¬
duce a cer¬
tain quan¬
tity ofiilk.
32
Lenj; th of
the threads,
contained in the cocoons foul it very confiderably. You
inuil endeavour to wind as much as poffible with clear
water, for if there are too many worms in it, your filk
is covered with a kind of duff which attrafts the moth,
and deftroys your filk.
You may wind your filk of what fize you plCafe,
from one cocoon to 1000 5 but it is difficult to wind
more than 30 in a thread. The nicety, and that in
which confifts the greateft difficulty, is to wind even ;
becaule as the cocoon winds off the end is finer, and
you mu ft then join other cocoons to keep up the fame
fize. 'this difficulty of keeping the fiik always even is
fo great, that (excepting a thread of two cocoons,
which we call fuch) wre do not fay a filk of three, of
four, or fix cocoons} but a filk of three to four, of
four to five, of fix to feven cocoons. If you proceed
to a coarfer filk, you cannot calculate fo nicely* as to
one cocoon more or lefs. We fay, for example, from
12 to 15, from 15 to 20, and fo on.
What number of wTorms are necefifary to produce a
certain quantity of fiik has not been afeertained. And
as different perfons who wifhed to determine this point
have had different refults, the truth feems to be, that
from various circumfiances the fame number of worms
may produce more filk at one time than at another. It
is related in the fecond volume of the Tranfadlions of
the Society for encouraging Arts, &c. that Mrs Wil¬
liams obtained nearly an ounce and a half of filk from
244 cocoons. Mr Svvayne from 50 cocoons procured
IGO grains. Mifs Rhodes obtained from 250 of the
largefi cocoons, three quarters of an ounce and a dram.
From a paper in the fecond volume of the Ameri¬
can Tranladlions, which we have before referred to in
the courfe of this article, W’e are informed that 150
ounces of good cocoons yield about 11 ounces of filk
from five to fix cocoons : if you wind coarfer, fomething
more. But what appears afioniihing, Mr Salvatore
Bertezen, an Italian, to whom the Society for encou¬
raging Arts, See. adjudged their gold medal, raifed £• e
pounds of excellent filk from 1 2,000 worms.
The cocoons produce a thread of very unequal
length ; you may meet with fome that yield [ 200 ells,
whilft others will fcarcely afford 200 ells. In general,
you may calculate the produdlion of a cocoon from 500
to 6co ells in length.
SlLK-Loorn. See WEAVING.
&ILK Worm. See Silk.
SILL A, a large town on the Niger*, by which the
travels of Mr Park were bounded towards the eafi. He
gives no particular defeription of the place, which his
health and fpirits permitted him not to furvey, but af-
figns the reafuns by which he was induced to proceed no
farther. On his arrival, he was allowed to remain un¬
der a tree, till it was quite dark, furrounded by hun¬
dreds of people. But their language was extremely dif¬
ferent from the other parts of Bambarra ; and he was
given to undeiftand, that in his progrefs eaftward, the
Bambarra tongue was very little underfiood ; and that,
on his reaching Jenne, he would find the greater part of
the inhabitants accufiomed to fpeak a different language.
Fie had now become the prey of ficknefs, exhaufted with
hunger and fatigue, half naked, and without any arti¬
cle of value, to procure for himfelf provifions, clothes,
or lodging, on which account he refolved to return, find¬
ing that to grofecute his journey further in that direc¬
tion was wholly imprafticable. Silla, according to the Silpl.k
latefi map of Africa, is in 140 48' N. Lat. and i° 24' II
W. Long. ,Simanca^
SILPHA, Carrion-Beetle, a genus of infers
belonging to the order coleopterx. See Entomology
Index.
SILPH1UM, a genus of plants belonging to the
clafs of iyngenefia, and to the order of poiygamia necef-
faria ) and in the natural fyftem arranged under the
49th order, compofitev. See Botany Index.
SILVER, a well known metallic f’ubfiance. For an
account of its properties, fee Chemistry Index.
Silver, Ores of. See Mineralogy Index.
S/ie//-SlL VER, is prepared ot the fineds of filver leaf,
or of the leaves themfelves, for the ufe of painters, after
the fame manner as fiiell gold. See She// GOLD.
SILVERING, the covering of any thing with fil¬
ver. It is ufual to filver metals, wood, paper, &c.
which is performed either with fire, oil, or fizc. Metal-
gilders filver by the fire ; painter-gilders all the other
ways. See Gilding.
To filver copper or brafs. 1. Cleanfe the metal with
aquafortis, by wafhing it lightly, and immediately
throwing it into pure water } or by heating it red-hot,
and fcouring it with fait and tartar, and pure water,
with a fmail wire brufh. 2. Diffolve fome filver in
aquafortis, in a broad-bottomed glafs veffel, or of gla¬
zed earth ; then evaporate away the aquafortis over a
charting diih of coals. 3. Put five or fix times its quan¬
tity of water, or as much as will be neceffary to diffolve
it perfectly, on the remaining dry calx ; evaporate this
water with the like heat *, then put more freth water,
and evaporate again ; and, if need be, the thud time,
making the fire towards the latter end fo firong as to
leave the calx perfeftly dry, which, if your filver is
good, will be of a pure while. 4. Take of this calx,
common fait, cryfials of tartar, of each a like quantity
or bulk, and mixing well the wffiole compofition, put
the metal into pure water, and take of the faid powder
with your wet fingers, and rub it well on, till you find
every little cavity of the metal fufficiently filvered over.
5. If you wmuld have it richly done, you muff rub on
more of the powder ; and, in the lafi place, wafh the
filvered metal in pure water, and rub it hard with a dry
cloth.
Silvering of GlaJJes. See Foliating of Looking-
glafes.
SIX UR IS, a genus of fillies belonging to the order
abdominales. See Ichthyology Index.
SIMANCAS, a village on the eafiern boundary of
the kingdom of Leon in Spain, fix nfiles below Valla¬
dolid, on the river Gifnerga. Dr Robertfon, in the in-
trodudficn to his Hifiory of America, makes mention of
it, and it is remarkable for the archives of the kingdoms
of Leon and Caftile, kept in the cafile. This collec¬
tion was begun when the kings often refided at Valla¬
dolid, in which city is ftill the civil and military tribu¬
nal for almoft the whole of Spain to the north of the
Tagus. It was thought proper to have thofe papers
kept in the vicinity of that court, for wdiich purpofe 'this
cafile was peculiarly fitted, being entirely ereffed of
ftone. At one period there were two large halls in this
office filled with papers refpedfing the firft fettlement of
the Spaniards in South America. There w7as likewife
in the room called the ancient royal patronage, a box
containing.
s. I M [ 366 ] SIM
Simancas containing treaties with England, in which are many
Simon ^etters and treaties between the kings of England and
< -t—r~, .. Spain, from the year 1400 to 1600. There was alfo a
flrong box in the fame archives, with five locks, which,
we are told, has not been opened fince the time of Phi¬
lip II. and it is fuppofed that it contains the procefs a-
gainfi: Philip’s fon Prince Charles. But it appears that
fome of the Hate papers have been removed to Madrid.
SIMEON of DURHAM, the cotemporary of William
of Malmfbury, took great pains in collecting the mo¬
numents of our hiftory, efpecially in the north of Eng¬
land, after they had been fcattered by the Danes. From
thefe he compofed a hiitory of the kings of England,
from A. D. 616 to 1130 } with fome fmaller hiftoii-
cal pieces. Simeon both ftudied and taught the fciences,
and particularly the mathematics at Oxford; and be¬
came precentor of the church at Durham, where he
died, probably foon after the conclufion of his hiftory,
which was continued by John, prior of Hexham, to
A. D. 1156.
SIMIA, the Monkey, a genus of quadrupeds be¬
longing to the clafs of mammalia, and order of primates,
in the Linnasean fyftem, but by Mr Pennant arranged
under the digitated quadrupeds. See Mammalia In-
(lex.
SIMILE, or Similitude, in Rhetoric, a compa-
rifon of two things, which though difterent in other
refpefts, yet agree in fome one. The difference be¬
tween a fimile and comparifon is faid to confift in this,
that the fimile properly belongs to whatever we call
the quality of a thing, and the comparifon to the quan¬
tity. See Comparison ; and Oratory, N® 118.
SIMILOR, a name given to an alloy of red cop¬
per and zinc, made in the beft proportions, to imitate
filver and gold.
SIMON Maccaceus, a celebrated leader and high-
prieft of the Jews, who, after rendering the moft im¬
portant fervices to his country, was at lalt treacheroufly
ilain by his fon-in-law. See the Hi/lory of the JEWS,
N° IC*
SIMON Magus, or the Sorcerer, w^as a native of Git-
ton, a village of Samaria. According to the ufualprac-
, tice of the Afiatics of that age, he vifited Egypt, and
HUtory 0/ t^iere probably became acquainted with the fublime
Philofopby, myfteries taught in the Alexandrian fchool, and learned
vol. »i. p. thofe theurgic or magical operations, by means of which
l6r* it w7as believed that men might be delivered from the
power of evil demons. Upon his return into his owm
country, the author of the Clementine Recognitions
relates, that he impofed upon his countrymen by high
pretenfions to fupernatural pow'ers. And St Luke at-
tefts, that this artful fanatic, ufing forcery, had be¬
witched the people of Samaria, giving out that he was
fome great one; and that he obtained fuch general atten¬
tion and reverence in Samaria, that the people all gave
heed to him from the leaft to the greateft, faying, “ This
man is the great power of God.”
By the preaching of Philip the Deacon, he wras with
other Samaritans converted to the Chriftian faith, and
admitted into the infant church by the ordinance of
baptifm. His converfion, however, feerr.s not to have
been real ; for, upon feeing the miraculous efftfts of
the laying on of the apoftle’s hands, he offered them mo¬
ney, faying, “ Give me alfo this power, that on whom-
foever I lay hands he may receive the Holy Ghcft.”
4
He probably thought Peter and John magicians like
himfelf, but better ikilled in the art of deceiving the
multitude.
Being fharply reproved for this impiety, he feems by
his anfwer to have been made fenfible of his fin ; but
his repentance, if fincere, was of Ihort duration. Re¬
turning to his former pra£lices of impofiure, he travel¬
led through various provinces of the empire, oppofing
the progrefs of the gofpel ; and arriving at Rome, he
led aftray vaft numbers of people by his pretended mi¬
racles. How long he lived in that metropolis cf the
world, or in what manner he died, wTe have no accounts
that can be fully depended on. The Chriftian writers
tell us, that being raifed in the air by two daemons, he
wTas deprived of their fupport by the prayers of St Pe-^
ter and St Paul, and falling, broke his legs. By fome
he is thought to have been the perfon mentioned by
Suetonius, who, undertaking to fly in the prefence of
Nero, fell to the ground with fuch violence, that his
blood fpurted up to the gallery where the emperor was
fitting,
The fum of this impoftor’s do&rine, divefted of al¬
legory, was, that from the Divine Being, as a fountain
of light, flow various orders of aeons, or eternal na¬
tures, fubfifting within the plenitude of the divine ef-
fence •, that beyond thefe, in the order of emanation,
are different claffes of intelligences, among the lowelt
of which are human fouls j that matter is the moft re¬
mote production of the emanative power, w’hich, on ac¬
count of its infinite diftance from the Fountain of
Light, poffeffes fluggifti and malignant qualities, wdiich
oppofe the divine operations, and are the caufe of evil;
that it is the great defign of philofophy to deliver the
foul from its imprifonment in matter, and reftore it to
that divine light from which it was derived j and that
for this purpofe God had fent him one of the firft aeons
among men. To his wife Helena he alfo aferibed a fi-
milar kind of divine nature, pretending that a female
mon inhabited the body of this woman, fo whom he
gave the name of Enatoc, Wifdom ; whence fome Chri¬
ftian fathers have faid, that he called her the Holy S/>i~
n't. He alfo taught the tranfmigration of fouls, and
denied the refurreCIion of the body.
Simon, Richard, was born at Dieppe the 15th
May 1638. He began his ftudies among the priefts
of the Oratory in that city, but quitted their fociety
in a Ihort time. From Dieppe he went to Paris, where
he made great progrefs in the ftudy of the oriental lan¬
guages. Some time afterwards he joined the fociety
of the Oratory again, and became a prieft of it in
1660. In 1670 he publiftied fome pieces of a fmaller
kind. In 1678 his Critical Kiftory of the Old Tefta-
ment appeared, but was immediately fuppreffed by the
intrigues of Meflieurs du Port Royal. It was reprint¬
ed the year after, and its excellence foon drew the at¬
tention of foreigners ; an edition of it was accordingly
publifhed at Amfterdam in Latin, and at London in
Englilh.
He died at Dieppe in 1712, at the age of 74.
He certainly poffeffed a vaft deal of learning : his
criticifm is exact, but not always moderate •, and there
reigns in his writings a fpirit of novelty and Angularity
which raifed him a great many adverfaries. The moft
celebrated of thefe were Le Clerc, Voflius, Jurieu, Du
Pin, and Boffuet, Simon wrote an anfwer to moft of
the
■ Simon.
S I M
[ 367 ]
S I M
Simonides.
Simon the books that were publiihed againft him, and difplays
a pride and obdinacy in his controverlial writings which
^ do him little honour.
He was the author cf a great many books. The fol¬
lowing are the principal : 1. The Ceremonies oi the
Jews, tranfhted from the Italian of Leo of Modena,
with a fupplement concerning the fe£ts of the Carraites
and Samaritans. 2. VHiJloire Critique du Vieux Te-
Jlament^ “ The Critical Hiitory of the Old Teftament.”
This is a very important work, and deferves the atten¬
tion of every clergyman. He fometimes, however, de¬
viates from the road of integrity, to ferve the caufe of
the church of Rome, particularly in his endeavours to
prove the uncertainty of the Hebrew language. Thefe
paffages have been very juftly expofed and confuted by
Hr Campbell, in his ingenious Preliminary DiiTertations
to his new Tranllation of the Gofpels. 3. Critical Hi-
ftery of the Text of the New' Teftament. 4. Critical
Hiftory of the Verfions of the New Teftament. 5.
Critical Hiftory of the principal Commentators on the
New Teftament. 6. Infpiration of the Sacred Books.
7. A tranflation of the New Teftament. This book
was cenfured by Cardinal Noailles and Bofluet. 8.
The Hiftory of the rife and progrefs of Eccleftaftical
Revenues, which is commended by Voltaire, as is his
Critical Hiftory of the Old Teftament. It refulted
from a quarrel with a community of Benedi£tines. 9.
A new feleft Library, which points out the good books
in various kinds of literature, and the ufe to be made of
them. 10. Critical Hiftory of the Belief and Cuftoms
of the Nations on the Levant. 11. Critical Letters,
&.c. *
SIMONICAL, is applied to any perfon guilty of
fimony. See Simony.
SIMONIDES, the name of feveral poets celebrated
in antiquity ; but by the Marbles it appears that the
eldeft and moft illuftrious of them was born in the 55th
Olympiad, 538 years B. C. and that he died in his 90th
year ; which nearly agrees with the chronology of Eu-
febius. He was a native of Ceos, one of the Cyclades,
in the neighbourhood of Attica, and the preceptor of
Pindar. Both Plato and Cicero give him the charac¬
ter not only of a good poet and mufician, but fpeak
of him as a perfon of great virtue and wifdom. Such
longevity gave him an opportunity of knowing a great
number of the firft charafters in antiquity with whom
he was in fome meafure connedted. It appears in Fa-
bricius, from ancient authority, that Simonides was
cotemporary and in friendfhip with Pittacus of Mity-
lene, Hipparchus tyrant of Athens, Paufanias king of
Sparta, Hiero tyrant of Syracufe, with Themiftocles,
and with Alevades king of Theflaly. He is mentioned
by Herodotus \ and Xenophon, in his Dialogue upon
Tyranny, makes him one of the interlocutors with
Hiero king of Syracufe, Cicero alleges, what has of¬
ten been quoted in proof of the modefty and wifdom
of Simonides, that when Hiero afked him for a defini¬
tion of God, the poet required a whole day to medi¬
tate on ib important a queftion : at the end of which,
upon the prince putting the fame queftion to him a
fecond time, he alked two days refpite ; and in this
manner always doubled the delay each time he vras re¬
quired to anfwer it; till at length, to avoid offending
his patron by more difappointments, he frankly con-
felfcd that-he'found the queftion fo difficult, that the
more he meditated upon it, the lefs was his hope of S.monides-.
being able to folve it. v—."-J
In his old age, perhaps from feeing the refpeff which
money procured to fuch as had loft the charms of youth
and the power of attaching mankind by other means,
he became fomewhat mercenary and avaricious. He
was frequently employed by the vidfors at the games to
write panegyrics and odes in their praife, before his pu¬
pil Pindar had exercifed his talents in their behalf: but
Simonides would never gratify their vanity in this par¬
ticular, till he had firft tied them down to a ftipulated
fum for his trouble j and upon being upbraided for his
meannefs, he faid, that he had two coffers, in one of
which he had for many years put his pecuniary re¬
wards 5 the other was for honours, verbal thanks, and
promifes ; that the firft was pretty well filled, but the
laft remained always empty. And he made no fcruple
to confefs, in his old age, that of all the enjoyments of
life, the love of money was the only one of which time
had not deprived him. ^
He wras frequently reproached for this vice j however,
he always defended himfelf with good humour. Upon be¬
ing afked by Hiero’s queen, Whether it was moft de-
firable to be learned or rich ? he anfwered, that it was
far better to be rich ; for the learned wrere always de¬
pendent on the rifth, and waiting at their doors; where¬
as, he never faw rich men at the doors of the learned.
When he was accufed of being fo fordid as to fell part
of the provifions with which his table w7as furnifhed by
Hiero, he faid he had done it in order “ to difplay to the
world the magnificence of that prince and his owm fru¬
gality.” To others he faid, that his reafon for accu¬
mulating wealth was, that “ he would rather leave mo¬
ney to his enemies after death, than be troublefome to
his friends while living.”
He obtained the prize in poetry at the public games
when he was fourfeore years of age. According to Sui-
das, he added four letters to the Greek alphabet; and
Pliny aftigns to him the eighth firing of the lyre; but
thefe claims are difputed by the learned.
His poetry was fo tender and plaintive, that he ac¬
quired the cognomen of Melicertes, “ fweet as honey
and the tearful eye of his mufe was proverbial. Dio-
nyfius places him among thofe polifhed writers who ex¬
cel in a fmooth volubility, and flow on like plenteous
and perennial rivers, in a courfe of even and uninterrupL
ed harmony.
It is to Dionyfius that we are indebted for the pre -
fervation of the following fragment of this poet. Da-
nae being by her mercilefs father inclofed in a cheft, and
thrown into the fea with her child, when night comes
on, and a fterm arifes which threatens to overfet the
cheft, fhe, weeping and embracing the young Perfeus,
cries out :
Sweet child ! what anguifh does thy mother know,
Ere cruel grief has taught thy tears to flow !
Amidft the roaring wund’s tremendous found,
Which threats deftruftion as it howls around j
In balmy fleep thou lieft, as at the breaft,
Without one bitter thought to break thy reft.  
The glimm’ring moon in pity hides her light,
And {brinks with horror at the ghaftly fight.
Didft thou but know, fweet innocent! our woes,
Not opiate’s pow’r thy eyelids now could clofe.
Sleep
sSSmoniiles
. II
Simoom.
1 here is a fccond great poet of the name of Simonides
recorded on the Marbles, luppofed to have been his
grandlon, and who gained, in 478 B. C. the prize in the
games at Athens.
SIMONY, is the corrupt prefentation of any one to
-■an ecclefiaftical benefice for money, gift, or reward. It
is fo called from the refemblance it is faid to bear o
the fin of Simon Magus, though the purchafing of holy
orders feems to approach nearer to his offence. It was
by the canon law a very grievous crime: and is fo much
the more odious, becaufe, as Sir Edward Coke obferves,
it is ever accompanied with perjury; for the prefentee
is fworn to have committed no fimony. However, it
was not an offence punilhable in a criminal way at the
common law' : it being thought fufficient to leave the
clerk to ecclefiafiical cenfures. But as thefe did not
affeSt the fitnoniacal patron, nor were efficacious enough
to repel the notorious praftice of the thing, divers affs
ot parliament have been made to reffrain it by means of
■civil forfeitures 5 which the modern prevailing ufage,
with regard to fpiritual preferments, calls aloud to be
put in execution. The flatute 31 Eliz. c. 6. ena&s,
that if any patron, for money or any other corrupt con-
fideration or promife, direclly or indirectly given, fhall
prefent, admit, inftitute, induft, inftall, or collate any
perfon to an ecclefiaftical benefice or dignity, both the
giver and taker (hall forfeit two years value of the be¬
nefice or dignity 5 one moiety to the king, and the other
to any one who will fue for the fame. If perfons alfo
corruptly refign or exchange their benefices, both the gi¬
ver and taker fhall in like manner forfeit double the va¬
lue of the money or other corrupt confideration. And
perfons who (hall corruptly ordain or licenfe any minifter,
or procure him to be ordained 01 licenfed (which is the
true idea of fimony), fhall incur a like forfeiture of for¬
ty pounds ; arid the minifter himfelf of ten pounds, be-
fides an incapacity to hold any ecclefiaftical preferment
for feven years afterwards. Corrupt ele&ions and re-
fignations in colleges, hofpitals, and other eleemofynary
corporations, are alio punifhed, by the fame ftatute* with
forfeiture of the double value, vacating the place or of¬
fice, and a devolution of the right of eleftion, for that
turn, to the crowm.
SIMOOM, a hot wind which blows occafionally in
the deferts of Africa, and probably in other w idely ex¬
tended countries parched in the fame manner by a ver¬
tical fun. Its effefts on the human body are dreadful.
If inhaled in any quantity, it produces inftant fuffoca-
tion, or at leaft leaves the unhappy fufferer oppreffed
with afthma and lownefs of fpirits. The approach of
this awfful fcourge of God is indicated by a rednefs in
the air, well urffierftood by thofe who are accuftomed to
journey through the defert ; and the only refuge which
they have from it, is to fall down with their faces clofe
to the ground, and to continue as long as poffible with¬
out drawing in their breath.
iSruce's Bruce, who, in his journey through the defert,
Travels, fuffered from the fimoom, gives of it the following gra-
voL iv. phlcal defcription : “ At eleven o’clock, while we con-
!1« 559' templated with great pleafure the rugged top of Cbig-
gre, to which we were faft approaching, and where we
Were to fplace ourfelves with plenty of good water,
S I M
Idris our guide cried out, with a loud voice, Fall upon Simoom
your faces, for here is the fimoom. I faw from the . H .
fouth-eaft a haze come, in colour like the purple partf^^j
ot the rainbow', but not fo comprtffed or thick. It
did net occupy twenty yards in breadth, and was about
twelve feet high from the ground. It w'as a kind of
bluth upon the air, and it moved very rapidly ; for I
fcarce could turn to fall upon the ground with my
head to the northward, w'hen I felt the heat of its cur¬
rent plainly upon my face. We all lay fiat on the
ground as if dead, till Idris told us it w'as blown over.
'The meteor or purple haze which I faw was indeed
paffed, but the light air that ftill blew w'as of heat to
threaten fuffocation. For my part, I found d:ftin&ly in
my breaft that I had imbibed a part of it, nor was I
free of . an afthmatic fenfation till 1 had been fome
months in Italy, at the baths of Poretta, near two years
afterwards.” Though the feverity of this blaft feems
t® have paffed over them almoft inftantaneoufiy, it con¬
tinued to blow fo as to exhauft them till twenty minutes
before five in the afternoon, lading through all its ftages
very near fix hours, and leaving them in a date of the
utmoft defpondency.
SIMPLE, fomething not mixed or compounded ; in
which fenfe it (lands oppofed to compound.
Simple, in the Materia Medico, a general name for
all herbs or plants, as having each its particular virtue,
whereby it becomes a fimple remedy.
SIMPLICITY IN writing. If we examine the
writers whofe compofitions have flood the left of ages,
and obtained that higheft honour, “ the concurrent apl
probation of diftant times and nations,” we fhall find
that the chara&er of fimplicity is the unvarying circum-
ftance which alone hath been able to gain this univerfal
homage, from mankind. Among the Greeks, whofe
writers in general are of the fimple kind, the divined
poet, the moft commanding orator, the fined hidorian
and deeped philofopher, are, above the red, confpicu-
oufly eminent in this great quality. Ihe Roman wri¬
ters rife towards perfection according to that meafure
of fimplicity which they mingle in their works ; indeed
they are all inferior to the Greek models. But who
will deny that Lucretius, Plorace, Virgil, Livy, Te¬
rence, Tully, are at once the fimpJed and bed of Ro¬
man writers ? unlefs we add the noble annalid w'ho ap¬
peared in after-times ; who, notw'ithdanding the politi¬
cal turn of his genius, which fometimes interferes, is ad¬
mirable in this great quality, and by it far fuperior to
his contemporaries. It is this one circumdance that
hath railed the venerable Dante, the father of modern
poetry, above the fucceeding poets of his country, who
could never long maintain the local and temporary ho¬
nours bedow'ed upon them j but have fallen under that
jud neglefl which time will ever decree to thofe who
defert a jud fimplicity for the florid colourings of ftyle,
contrafied phrafes, affefted conceits, the mere trappings cf
compofition and Gothic minutiae. It is this which Las
given to Boileau the mod lading wreath in France, and
to Shakefpeare and Milton in England ; efpecially to
the former, wdrofe writings contain fpecimens of per¬
haps the pured and fimpled Engliffi that is anywhere
to be found, except in the Bible or Book of Common
Prayer.. As it appears from thefe inflances, that fim¬
plicity is the only umverfal charafterifiic of jud writ¬
ing, fo the fuperior eminence of the facred Scriptures
in
SIM [ 368 ]
Sleep on, fweet babe ! ye waves in filence roll j
And lull, O lull, to red my tortur’d foul!
iSimpfon.
s
Simplicity in this quality hath
One of the greateif critics in antiquity, himfelf con,
v  i fpicuous in the lubhnie and fimple manner, hath borne
this teftimony to the writings of Mofes and St Paul;
and by parity of reafon we muft conclude, that had he
been converfant with the other facred writers, his tafte
and candour would have allowed them the fame en¬
comium.
It hath been often obferved, even by writers of no
mean rank, that the “ Scriptures fuffer in their credit
by the difadvantage of a literal verfion, while other an¬
cient writings enjoy the advantage of a free and embel-
liihed tranflation.” But in reality thefe gentlemen’s con¬
cern is ill placed and groundlefs : for the truth is, “ that
molt other writings are impaired by a literal tranflation j
whereas giving only a due regard to the idiom of diffe¬
rent languages, the facred writings, when literally tranf..
rated, are then in their full perfe&ion.”
. N°w t!lis is an internal proof, that in all other wri¬
tings there is. a mixture of local, relative, exterior
ornament, which is often loft in the transfufion from
one language to another. But the internal beauties,
rvlnch depend not on the particular conftruaion of
tongues, no change of tongue can deftroy. Hence the
Bible preferves its native beauty and ftrength alike
in every language, by the foie energy of unadorned
pin natural images, weight of fentiment, and great
limplicity. °
It is in this refpe£t like a rich vein of gold, which,
under.the feyereft trials of heat, cold, and moifture, re¬
tains its original weight and fplendour, without either
lofs or alloy ; while baler metals are corrupted by earth,
sir, water, fire, and aflimilated to the various elements
through which they pafs.
I his circumftance, then, may be juftly regarded as
fufficient to vindicate the compofition of the facred
Scriptures, as it is at once their chief excellence and
greateft fecurity. It is their excellence, as it renders
them intelligible and ufeful to all; it is their fecurity,
as.rt prevents their being difguifed by the falfe and ca¬
pricious ornaments of vain or weak tranflators. We
may fafely appeal to experience and faft for the confir¬
mation of thefe remarks on the fuperior fimplicity
utility, and excellence, of the ftyle of the Holy Scrip¬
ture. Is there any book in the world fo perfeclly a-
dapled to all capacities ? that contains fuch fublime and
exalted precepts, conveyed in fuch an artlefs and in¬
telligible ftrain, that can be read with fuch pleafure
and advantage by the lettered fage and the unlettered
peafant ?
SIMPLOCE. See Oratory, N° 72.
. SIMPSON, Thomas, profeffor of mathematics at
the royal academy at Woolwich, fellow of the Royal
Society, and member of the Royal Academy at Stock¬
holm, was born at Market Bofworth in Leicefterftiire
m 1710. His father, a fluff-weaver, taught him only
to read Englifh, and brought him up to his own bufi-
nefs; but meeting with a fcientific pedlar, who like-
wifo praftifed fortune-telling, young Simpfon by his af-
iiilance and advice left oft weaving, and profefl’ed aftro-
logy. As he improved in knowledge, however, he grew
dilgufted with his pretended art ; and renouncing it
was driven to fuch difficulties for the fubfiftence of his’
iamily, that he came up to London, where he worked
as a weaver, and taught mathematics at his fpare hours
Vol. XIX. Part I.
1 M [ 3C9 ] SIM
been generally acknowledged. As his fcholars iucreafed, his abilities became better
known, and he publiftied his Treatife on Fluxions, by
fubfcription, in 1737 ; in 1740, he publiftied his Trea-
tife on the Nature and Laws of Chance j and Effays
m Speculative and Mixed Mathematics. After thefe
appeared his Doftrine oi Annuities and Reverfions j
Mathematical Diflertations; Treatife on Algebra 5 £-
lements of Geometry ; Trigonometry, Plane* and Sphe¬
rical ; Seleft Exercifes; and his Doarine and Appli¬
cation of Fluxions, which he profeffes to be rather a
new vvoik, than a fecond edition of his former publica¬
tion on fluxions. In 1743, he obtained the mathema¬
tical profefforfhip at Woolwich academy ; and foon af¬
ter was chofen a member of the Royal Society, when
the prefident and council, in confideration of his mode¬
rate circumftances, were pleafed to excufe his adraiffion-
fees, and his giving bonds for the fettled future pay¬
ments. . At the academy he exerted all his abilities in
inftrufling the pupils who were the immediate objefls
of his duty, as well as others whom the fuperior officers
of the ordnance permitted to be boarded and lodged in
his houfe. In his manner of teaching he had a peculiar
and happy addrefs, a certain dignity and perfpicuity,
tempered with fuch a degree of mildnefs, as engaged
the attention, efteem, and fn'endihip, of his fcholars.
He therefore acquired great applaufe from his fuperiors
in the difcharge of his duty. His application and clofe
confinement, however, injured his health. Exercife and
a proper regimen were prefcribed to him, but to little
purpofe : for his fpirits funk gradually, till he became
incapable of performing his .duty, or even of reading
the letters of his friends. The effeds of this decay of
nature were greatly increafed by vexation of mind, ow¬
ing to the haughty and infulting behaviour of his fupe-
rior the firfl profeffor of mathematics. This perfon,
greatly his inferior in mathematical accomplifhments, did
what he could to make his fituation uneafy, and even to
depreciate him in the public opinion : but it was a vain
endeavour, and only ferved to deprefs himfelf. At
length his phyficians advifed his native air for his reco¬
very, and he fet out in February 1761 5 but was fo fa¬
tigued by his journey, that upon his arrival at Bofworth,
he betook himfelf to his chamber, and grew continually
worfe till the day of his death, which happened on the
14th of May, in the 51ft year of his age.
SIMSON, Dr Robert, profeffor of mathematics in
the univerfity of Glafgow, was born in the year 1687
of a refpe&able family, which had held a fmall eftate in
the county of Lanark for fome generations. He was,
we think, the fecond fon of the family. A younger
brother was profeffor of medicine in the univerfity of
St Andrew’s, and is known by fome works of reputa¬
tion, particularly a Differtation on the Nervous Syftem,
occafioned by the Diffedion of a Brain completely Of-
fified.
Dr Simfon was educated in the univerfity of Glaf¬
gow under the eye of fome of his relations who were
profeffors. Eager after knowledge, he made great pro-
grefs in all his ftudies; and, as his mind did not, at
the very firft openings of fcience, ftrike into that path
which afterwards fo ftrongly attraded him, and in
which he proceeded fo far almoft without a companion,
he acquired in every walk of fcience a flock of informa¬
tion, which, though it had never been much augmented
afterwards, would have done credit to aprofeffional man
3 in
Siniibr
-—v~~
I M [
He became, at a very early pe
^ .fc7
-Simfon. in any of his {Indies. , ...
' »—~ riod, an adept in the philofophy and theology of the
fchools, was able to fupply the place of a Tick relation
in the clafs of oriental languages, was noted for hiftori-
cal knowledge, and one of the moft knowing botanifts
of his time.
It was during his theological {Indies, as preparatory
for his entering into orders, that mathematics took hold
ot his fancy. He ufed to tell in ins convivial moments
how he ainufed himlelf wtien preparing his exerciles
for the divinity hall. \SThen tired with vague {pecula¬
tion, in which he did not meet with certainty to re¬
ward his labours, he turned up a book of oriental phi¬
lology, in which he found fomething which he could
difcover to be true or to be falfe, without going out of
the line of fludy which was to be o{ ultimate ufe to
him. Sometimes even this could not relieve his fatigue.
He then had recourfe to mathematics, which never tail¬
ed to fatisfy and refrefh him. For a long while he re-
ftridled himfelf to a very moderate ufe ot the cordial,
fearing that he wTould foon exhauft the {mall flock
which fo limited and abtlradf a fcience could yield
till at laft he found, that the more he learned, a
wider field opened to his view, and fcenes that weie
inexhauftible. Becoming acquainted with fubjefts far
beyond the elements of the fcience, and with num¬
bers of names celebrated during that period of ardent
refearcb all over Europe, he found it to be a manly and
important fludy, by which he was as likely to acquire
reputation as by any other. About this time, too,
a profpedt began to open of making mathematics Lis
profeffion for life. He then gave himfelf up to it walk¬
out rtferve.
His original incitement to this fludy as a treat, as
fomething to pleafe and refrefh his mind in the midrt of
feverer talks, gave a particular turn to his mathematical
fludies, from which he never could afterwards deviate.
Perfpicuity and elegance are more attainable, and more
difcernible, in pure geometry, than in any other parts of
the fcience of meafure. J o this therefore he chiefly
devoted himfelf. For the fame reafon he preferred the
ancient method of fludying pure geometry,^ and even
felt a diflike to the Cartefian method of iubftituting
fymbols for operations of the mind, and ftill more was
he difgufled with the fubftitution of fymbols for the
vTery objedls of difeuflion, for lines, furfaces, folids, and
their affedlions. He was rather difpofed in the fo-
lution of an algebraical problem, where quantity alone
was confidered, to fubflitute figure and its affeffions
for the algebraical fymbols, and to convert the algebraic
formula into an analogous geometrical theorem. And
he came at laft to confider algebraic analyfis as little
better than a kind of mechanical knack, in which r\e
proceed without ideas of any kind, and obtain a refult
without meaning, and without being confcious of any
procefs of reafoning, and therefore without any convic-
o ] Si M
tion of its truth. And there is no denying, that it ge¬
nuine unfophifticated tafte alone is to be confulted, Dr
Simfon was in the right: for though it muft alfo be
acknowledged, that the reafoning in algebra is as ft rick
as in the pureft geometry of Euclid or Apollonius, the
expert analyft has little perception of it as he goes on,
and his final equation is not felt by himfelf as the refult
of ratiocination, any more than if he had obtained it by
PafcaPs arithmetical mill. This does not in the kait
diminifh our admiration of the algebraic analyfis j for
its almoft boundlefs grafp, its rapid and certain proce¬
dure, and the delicate metaphyfics and great addrefs
which may be difpiayed in conducing it. Such, how¬
ever, was the ground of the ftrong bias of Dr Simfon’s
mind to the analyfis of the ancient geometers. It in-
creafed as he went forward ; and his veneration (we
may call it his /ove or ajfeBwn') for the ancient geometry
was carried to a degree of idolatry. His chief labours
were exerted in efforts to reflore the works of the an¬
cient geometers •, and he has nowhere beft'owed much
pains in advancing the modern difeoveries in mathema¬
tics. The noble inventions, for example, of fluxions
and of logarithms, by which our progrefs in mathema¬
tical knowledge, and in the ufeful application o{ this
knowledge, is fo much promoted, attracted the notice
of Dr Simfon *, but he has contented himfelf with de-
monftrating their truth on the genuine principles of
the ancient geometry. Yet was he very thoroughly
acquainted with all the modern difeoveries •, and there
are to be feen among his papers difeuflions and invefti-
gations in the Cartefian method, which {how him tho¬
roughly acquainted with all the principles, and even ex¬
pert in the tours de main, of the moft refined fymbolical
analyfis (a).
About the age of 25 Dr Simfon was chofen pro-
feffor of mathematics in the univerfity of Qlafgow. He
went to London immediately after his appointment,
and there formed an acquaintance with the moft eminent
men of that bright era of Britilh fcience. Among
thefe he always mentioned Captain Halley (the celebra¬
ted Dr Edmund Halley) with particular reipedt; fay¬
ing, that he had the moft acute penetration, and the
mofl juft tafte in that fcience, of any man he had ever
known. And, indeed, Dr Halley has ftrongly exem¬
plified both of thefe in his divination of the work of
Apollonius de SeBione Spain, and the 8th book of his
Conics, and in feme of the moft beautiful theorems in
Sir Ifaac Newton’s Principia. Dr Simfon alfo admired
the wide and mafterly fleps which Newton was accuf-
tomed to take in his inveftigations, and his manner of
fubftituting geometrical figures for the quantities which
are obferved in the phenomena of nature. It was from
Dr Simfon that the writer of this article had the re¬
mark which has been oftener than once repeated in the
courfe of this Work, “ That the 39th propofition of the
firft book of the Principia was the moft important pro¬
pofition
Simfon.
(a) In 17 C2 the writer of this article being then his fcholar, requefted him to examine an account which he
rave him of what he thought a new curve (a conchoid having a circle for its bafe). Dr Won returned it next
day with a regular lift of its leading properties, and the mveftigation of fuch as he thought is cno ar wou
not fo eafily trace. In this hafty fcrawl the lines related to the circle were familiarly confidered as anthmetica. tac¬
tions of the radius confidered as unity. This was before Euler publfthed his Arithmetic of the bines and Tangeots,
now in univerfal ufe.
I
SIM [ 5;
Simron. pofition that had ever been exhibited to tne po) flco-ma-
1 1 thematical philofopher j ’ and he med always to hlu-
ftrate to his more advanced fcholars the fupenority of
the oreometrical over the algebraic analyfis, by compar¬
ing the folution given by Newton of the inverfe pro¬
blem of centripetal forces, in the $2d proportion of that
book, with the one given by John Bernoulli in the. Me¬
moirs of the Academy of Sciences at Paris mr 1^13*
We have heard him fay, that to his own knowledge
Newton frequently inveftigated his proportions in the
fymbolical way, and that it was owing chiefly to Dr
Halley that they did not finally appear in that drefs.
But if Dr Simfon was well informed, we think it a
great argument in favour ot the fymbonc analyfis, when
this moft fuccefsful praEtical artij} (for fo we muit call
Newton when engaged in a taflc of difcovery) found it
conducive either to difpatch or perhaps to his very pro-
§re^s* • r w 1
Returning to his academical chair, Dr Simfon difchar-
ged the duties of a profeffor for more than 50 years with
great honour to the umverfity and to himfelf.
It is almoft needlefs to fay, that in his prelections he
followed flriaiy the Euclidian method in elementary
geometry. He made uie of JLheodofius as an introduc¬
tion to fpherical trigonometry. In the higher geome-
trv he preledled from his own Conics } and he gave a
fmall fpecimen of the linear problems of the ancients,
by explaining the properties, iometimes 01. the conchoid,
fometimes of°the ciffoid, with their application to the
folution of fuch problems. In the more advanced clafs
he was accuftomed to give Napier’s mode of conceiving
logarithms, i. e. quantities as generated by motion \ and
Mr Cotes’s view of them, as the fums of ratiunculae ;
and to demonftrate Newton’s lemmas concerning the li¬
mits of ratios ; and then to give the elements of the
fluxionary calculus *, and to finifli his courfe with a fe-
left fet of propofitions in optics, gnomonics, and central
forces. His method of teaching was fimple and perfpi-
- cudus, his elocution clear, and his manner eafy and im-
preffive. He had the refpeft, and flill more the affec¬
tion, of his fcholars.
With refpeft to his ftudies, we have already inform¬
ed the reader that they got an early bias to pure geo¬
metry, and to the elegant but fcrupulous methods of the
ancients.
We have heard Dr Simfon fay, that it was in a great
meafure owing to Dr Halley that he fo early dire£led
his efforts to the reftoration of the ancient geometers.
He had recommended this to him, as the mofl certain
way for him, then a very young man, both to acquire
reputation, and to improve his own knowledge and tafle,
and he prefented him with a copy of Pappus’s Mathe¬
matical Colleftions, enriched with fomeof his own notes.
The perfpicuity of the ancient geometrical analyfis, and
a certain elegance in the nature of the folutions which
it affords, efpecially by means of the local theorems,
foon took firm hold of his fancy, and made him, with
the fanguine expedlation of a young man, direft his very
firft efforts to the recovery of this in toto ; and the refto¬
ration of Euclid’s Porifms was the firft: talk which he
fet himfelf. The accompliflied geometer knows what a
defperate talk this was, from the fcanty and mutilated
account which we have of this work in a fingle paffage
of Pappus. It was an ambition which nothing but fuc-
cefs could juftify in fo young an adventurer. He fuc-
h ] SI M
ceeded ; ana fo early as 1718 feemed to have been in ^!llllon-
complete poffeflion of this method ol inveftigation, 'r~m
which was confidered by the eminent geometers of an¬
tiquity as their fureft guide through the labyrinths of
the higher geometry. Dr Simfon gave a fpecimen of
his difeovery in 1723 in the Philofophical Tranfaclions.
And after this time he cealed not from his endeavours
to recover that choice colleftion of Porifms which Eu ■
did had colledled, as of the moft general ufe in the fo¬
lution of difficult queftions. What fome of thefe mufi:
have been was pointed out to Dr Simfon by the very na¬
ture of the general propofition of Pappus, which he has
reftored. Others were pointed out by the lemmas
which Pappus has given as helps to the young mathe¬
matician towards their demonftration. And, being thus
in poffeffion of a conliderable number, their mutual re¬
lations pointed out a fort of fyftem, of which thele made
a part, and of wffiich the blanks now remained to be
filled up.
Dr Simfon, having thus gained his favourite point,
had leifure to turn his attention to the other works of
the ancient geometers} and the porifms of Euclid now
had only an occafional ftiare. "Ihe loci plant of Apol¬
lonius was another talk which he very early engaged in,
and completed about the year BUR after it was
printed, he imagined that he had not given the ipJKJimcv
propojitiones of Apollonius, and in the precife Ipirit and
order of that author. The impreffion lay by him for
fome years 5 and it was with great reluctance that he
yielded to the intreaties of his mathematical friends, and
publiftied the work, in 1746, with fome emendations,
where he thought he had deviated fartheft from his au¬
thor. He quickly repented of this fcanty conceffion,
and recalled what he could of the fmall number of co¬
pies wffiich he had given to the bookfellers, and the im¬
preffion again lay by him for years. He afterw'ards re-
corredted the work, and ftill with fome reludtance al¬
lowed it to come abroad as the Reftitution of Apollo¬
nius. The public, however, had not been fo faftidious
as Dr Simfon, and the work had acquired great cele¬
brity, and he was now confidered as one of the firft: and
the moft elegant geometers of the age : for, in the mean
time, he had publiftied his Conic Sedlions, a work of
uncommon merit, whether we confider it as equivalent
to a complete reftitution of the celebrated work of A-
pollonius Perga?vis, or as an excellent fyftem of this im¬
portant part of mathematics. It is marked with the
fame features as the loci plant, the moft anxious folici-
tude to exhibit the very text of Apollonius, even in the
propofitions belonging to the books which had been
completely loft. Phefe could be recovered in no other
way but by a thorough knowledge of the precife plan
propofed by the author, and by taking it for granted
that the author had accurately accomplfthed this plan.
In this manner did Viviani proceed in the firft attempt
which was made to reftore the conics of Apollonius j
and he has given us a detail of the procefs of his conjec¬
tures, by which we may form an opinion of its juftnefs,
and of the probability how far he has attained the de-
fired objfcdl. Dr Simfon’s view in his performance was
fomething different, deviating a little in this one cafe
from his general track. He was not altogether pleafed
with the work of Viviani, even as augmented by the
eighth book added by Halley, and his wifti was to re¬
ftore the ancient original. But, in the mean time,^ an
2 A 2 academical
1 M [ 372 1 SIM
Srmron. ^ academical text book for conic fe£Hons was much want*
Y ed. He was much diffatisfied with thofe in common
uie ; and he was not infenfible of the advantage refult-
ing from the confideration of thefe feftions, independent
of the cone firft introduced by Ur Wallis. He there¬
fore compofed this excellent treatife as an elementary
book, not to fuperfede, but to prepare for the fludy of
Apollonius ; and accordingly accommodates it to this
purpofe, and gives feveral important propofitions in
their proper places, exprefshj as rejiitutions of Apollo¬
nius, whom he keeps conitantly in view through the
whole work.
Much about this time Dr Simfon ferioufly began to
prepare a perfeft edition of Euclid’s Elements. The
intimate acquaintance which he had by this time ac¬
quired with all the original works of the ancient geome¬
ters, and their ancient commentators and critics, encou¬
raged him to hope that he could reftore to his original
luftre this leader in mathematical fcience ; and the errors
which had crept into this celebrated work, and which
flill remained in it, appeared of magnitude fufficient to
merit the moft careful efforts for their removal. The
data alfo, which were in like manner the introduftion
to the whole art of geometrical invefligation, feemed to
call more loudly for his amending hand. For it appears
that the Saracens, who have preferved to us the writings
of the ancients, have contented themfelves with admir¬
ing thefe celebrated works, and have availed themfelves
of the knowledge which they contain ; but they have
fhown no inclination to add to the flock, or to promote
the fciences which they had received. They could not
do any thing without the fynthetical books of the geo¬
meters ; but, not meaning to go beyond the difcoveries
which they had made, they negle&ed all the books
which related to the analytic art alone, and the greatefl:
part of them (about 25 out of 30) have irrecoverably
perifhed. The data of Euclid have fortunately been
preferved, but the book was negledled, and the only
ancient copies, which are but three or four, are mifera-
bly erroneous and mutilated. Fortunately, it is no very
arduous matter to reinflate this work in its original per-
feftion. The plan is precife, both in its extent and its
method. It had been reftored, therefore, with fuccefs
by more than one author. But Dr Simfon’s compre-
henfive view of the whole analytical fyftem pointed out
to him many occafions for amendment. He therefore
made its inflitution a joint talk with that of the elements.
All the lovers of true geometry will acknowledge their
obligations to him for the edition of the Elements and
data which he publifhed about 1758. The text is cor-
refted with the moff judicious and fcrupulous care, and
the notes are ineftimable, both for their information,
and for the tendency which they muff have to form the
mind of the fludent to a true judgement and tafle in
mathematical fubje&s. The more accomplifhed reader
will perhaps be fometimes difpofed to fmile at the axiom
xvhich feems to pervade the notes, “ that a work of Eu¬
clid muff be fuppofed without error or defeft.” If this
was not the cafe, Euclid has been obliged to bis editor
in more inflances than one. Nor ftiould his greatefl ad¬
mirers think it impoffible that in the progrefs of human
improvement, a geometrical truth fhould occur to one
of thefe latter days, which efcaped the notice of even
the Lincean Euclid. Such merit, however, Dr Sim-
fon nowhere claims, but lays every blame of error,
omillion, or obfcurity, to the charge of Proclus, Tlieon, Simfon.
and other editors and commentators of the renowned’ 
Grecian.
_ There is another work of Apollonius on which Dr
Simfon has bellowed great pains, and has reffored, as
we imagine, omnibus numerispetfe&um, viz. the Sectio
deterTsiinata ; one of thofe performances which are of
indifpenfable ufe in the application of the ancient ana-
lylis. This alfo feems to have been an early talk
though we do not know the date of his labours on it!
It did not appear till after his death, being then pub!
lilhed along with the great work, the Porifms of Eu¬
clid, at the expence of the late Earl Stanhope, a no¬
bleman intimately converfant with the ancient geometry,
and zealous for its reception among the mathematicians
of the prefent age. He had kept up a conflant corre-
fpondence with Dr Simfon on mathematical fubjefts ;
and at his death in 1768, engaged Mr Clow profeffor
of logic in the univerlity of Glafgow, to whofe care the
Doftor had left all his valuable papers, to make a felec-
tion of fuch as would ferve to fupport and increafe his
well-earned reputation as the Restorer of ancient
Geometry.
\vre have been tbus particular in our account of Dr
Siimon s labours in thefe wrorks, becaufe his manner of
execution, while it does honour to his inventive powers,
and Ihows his juft tafle in mathematical compofition, al¬
fo confirms our former affertion, that he carried his re-
fpeft for the ancient geometers to a degree of fuperfti-
tious idolatry, and that his fancy, unchecked, viewed
them as incapable of error or imnerfetffion. This is di-
llinflly to be feen in the emendations which he has gi¬
ven of the texts, particularly in his editions of Euclid.
Not only every imperfedion of the reading is aferibed to
the ignorance of copy ids, and every indiftindnefs in
the conception, inconclufivenefs in the reafoning, and
defed in the method, is aferibed to the ignorance or
miltake of the commentators ; but it is all along affum-
ed that the work was perfed in its kind; and that by
exhibiting a perfed work, we reftorc the genuine origi¬
nal. . This is furely gratuitous ; and it is very pofiible
that it has, in fome inftances, made Dr Simfon fail of
his anxious purpofe, and give us even a better than the
original. It has undoubtedly made him fail in what
Jhould have been his great purpofe, viz. to give the
world a conneded fyftem of the ancient geometrical ana-
lyfis ; fuch as would, in the firft: place, exhibit it in its
moft engaging form, elegant, perfpicuous, and compre-
henfive; and, in the next place, fuch as fhould engage
the mathematicians of the prefent age to adopt it as the
moft certain and fuccefsful condudor in thofe laborious
and difficult refearches in which the demands of modern
fcience continually engage them. And this might have
been expeded, in the province of fpeculative geometry
at leaft, from a perfon of fuch extenfive knowledge of
the properties of figure, and who had fo eminently fuc-
ceeded in the many trials which he had made of its
powers. We might have expeded that he would at
leaf! have exhibited in one fyftematic point of view,
what the ancients had done in feveral detached branches
of the fcience, and how far they had proceeded in the
folution of the feveral fucceffive claffes of problems; and
we might have hoped, that he would have inftruded us
in what manner we fhould apply that method to the fo-
lutioH of problems of a more elevated kind, daily pre-
fented
mfo’-i.
■v—■
S 1 M [ 3
• fented to us In the queftions of phyficc-malliematic?! fci-
ence. By this he would have acquired diftinguifhed ho¬
nour, and fcience would have received the mod valuable
improvement. But J3r Simfon has done little of all
this ; and we cannot fry that great helps have been de¬
rived from his labours by the eminent mathematicians of
this age, who are fuccefsfully occupied in advancing our
knowledge of nature, or in improving the arts of life.
He has indeed contributed greatly to the entertainment
of the fpeculative mathematician, who is more delighted
with the confeious exercife of his own reafoning powers,
than with the final refult of his refearches. Yet we are
not even certain that Dr Simfon has done this to the ex¬
tent he wifhed and hoped. He has not engaged the lik¬
ing of mathematicians to this analyfis, by prefenting it
in the molt agreeable form. His own extreme anxiety
to tread in the very footlteps of the original authors, has,
in a thoufand in dances, precluded him from ufmg his
own extenfxve knowledge, that he might not employ
principles which were not of a clafs inferior to that of
the quedion in hand. Thus, of neceffity, did the me¬
thod appear trammelled. We are deterred from employ¬
ing a jirocefs which appears to redrain us in the applica¬
tion of the knowledge which we have already acquired j
and, difguded with the tedious, and perhaps indireft
path, by which we mud arrive at an object which we
fee clearly over the hedge, and which we «ould reach
by a few deps, of the fecurity of which we are other-
wife perfectly afiured. Thefe prepoffedions are indeed
founded on mtdake •, but the midake is fuch, that all
fall into it, till experience has enlarged their views.
This circumdance alone has hitherto prevented mathe¬
maticians from acquiring that knowledge of the ancient
analyfis which would enable them to proceed in their re¬
fearches with certainty, difpatch, and delight. It is
therefore deeply to be regretted, that this eminent ge¬
nius has occupied, in this fuperditious palceology, a long
and bufy life, which might have been employed in ori¬
ginal works of infinite advantage to the world, and ho¬
nour to himfelf.
Our readers will, it is hoped, confider thefe obferva-
tions as of general fcientific importance, and as intimate¬
ly connefted with the hidory of mathematics; and there¬
fore as not improperly introduced in the biographical ac¬
count of one of the mod eminent writers on this fcience.
Dr Simfirn claimed our notice as a mathematician •, and
his affe&ionate admiration of the ancient analyfis is the
prominent feature of his literary chara&er. By this he
is known all over Europe ; and his name is never men¬
tioned by any foreign author without fome very honour¬
able allufion to his didtnguilhed geometrical elegance
and Ikill. Dr James Moor, profeflbr of Greek in the
univerfity of Glafgow, no lefs eminent for his knowledge
in ancient geometry than for his profedional talents, put
the following appofite infeription below a portrait of Dr
Simfon :
Geometrtam, sub Tyranko barbaro S7EVA
SeRVITUTE DIU SQUALENTEM, IN LlBERTATEM
Ex DECUS ANTIQUUM VINDICAVIT
Unus.
Yet it mud not be underdood that Dr Simfon’s pre-
dileftion for the geometrical analyfis of the ancients'did
fo far millead him as to make him negleft the fymbo-
lical analyfis of the prefent times j on the contrary, he
73 ] SIM
was completely mafier of it, as has been already obferved,
and frequently employed it. In his academical ledlures
to the dudents of his upper claffes, he ufed to point out.
its proper province (which he by no means limited by a
fcanty boundary), and in what cafes it might be applied
with fafety and advantage even to queftions of pure geo¬
metry. He once honoured the writer of this article with
the fight of a very fhort differtation on this fubjeft (per¬
haps the one referred to in the preface to his Conic Sec¬
tions). In this piece he was perhaps more liberal than
the mod zealous partifans of the fymbolical analyfis could
defire, admitting as a fufiicient equation of the Conic
Sections L — , where L is the latus reBum, x is
the difiance of any point of the curve from the focus, p
is the perpendicular drawn from the focus to the tangent
in the given point, and c is the chord of the equicurve
circle drawn through the focus. Unfortunately this differ¬
tation was not found among his papers. He fpoke in
high terms of the Analytical Works of Mr Cotes, and
of the two Bernoullis. He was confulted by Mr M‘Lau-
rm during the progrefs of his inedimable Treatife of
Fluxions, and contributed not a little to the reputation
of that woik. i he fpirit of that mod ingenious algebraic
demondration of the fluxions of a reftangle, and the verr
procefs of the argument, is the fame with Dr Simfon’s in
his differtation on the limits of quantities. It was there¬
fore from a thorough acquaintance with the fubjeft, and
by a jud tade, that he was induced to prefer his favourite
analyfis, or, to fpeak more properly, to exhort mathema¬
ticians to employ it in its own fphere, and not to become
ignorant of geometry, while he fuccefsfully employed
the fymbolical analyfis in cafes which did not require it,
and which differed by its admiffion. It mud be acknow¬
ledged, however, that in his later years, the difgud which
he felt at the artificial and flovenly employment on fub-
jefts of pure geometry, fometimes hindered him from
eien looking at the mod refined and ingenious improve¬
ments of the algebraic analyfis which occur in the wri¬
tings of Euler, D’Alembert, and other eminent maders.
But, when properly informed of them, he never failed to
give them their due praife ; and we remember him fpeak-
ing, terms ol great fatisfaflion, of an improvement of
the infinitefimal calculus, by D’Alembert and De la
Grange, in their refearches concerning the propagation
of found, and the vibrations of mufical cords.
And that Dr Simfon not only was mader of this cal¬
culus and the fymbolical calculus in general, but held
them in proper edeem, appears from two valuable differ-
tations to be found in his pofihumous works ; the one on
logarithms, and the other on the limits of ratios. The
Lift, in particular, fliows how completely he was fatis-
fied with refpect to the folid foundation of the method
of fluxions ; and it contains an elegant and drift de-
mondration of all the applications which have been
made of the method by its illudrious author to the ob-
jefts of pure geometry.
. We ^°Pecl to kave given a much more complete and
indiuftive account of this eminent geometer and his
works, by the aid cf a perfon fully acquainted with
bodi, and aide to appreciate their value ; but an acci¬
dent has deprived us of this afliflance, when it was too
late to procure an equivalent: and we mud requefi our
readers to accept of this very imperfeft account, fince
we cannot do judice to Dr Simfon’s merit, unlefs aimed
equally;
Simfon.
Simfon.
SIM [ 3
equally converfant in all the geometry of the ancient
Greeks.
The life of a literary man rarely teems with anecdote 5
and a mathematician, devoted to his ftudies, is perhaps
more abftra&ed than any other perfon from the ordina¬
ry occurrences of life, and even the ordinary topics of
converfation. Dr Simfon was of this clafs ; and, having
never married, lived entirely a college life. Haying no
occafion for the commodious houle to which his place
in the univerfity entitled him, he contented himfelf with
chambers, good indeed, and fpacious enough for his
fober accommodation, and for receiving his choice col-
ledlion of mathematical writers, but without any deco¬
ration or commodious furniture. His official fervant
fufficed for valet, footman, and chambermaid. As this
retirement was entirely devoted to iludy, he entertained
no company in his chambers, but in a neighbouring
houle, where his apartment was facred to him and his
guefts. .
Having in early life devoted himfelf to the rettoration
of the works of the ancient geometers, he fludied them
with unremitting attention ; and, retiring from the pro-
mifcuous inteicourfe of the world, he contented himleif
with a fmall fociety of intimate friends, with whom he
could lay afide every reftraint of ceremony or referve,
and indulge in all the innocent frivolities of life. Every
Eriday evening was fpent in a party at whift, in which
he excelled, and took delight in in ft ruff i rig others, till
increafing years made him lefs patient with the dulneis
of a fcho'lar. The card-party was followed by an hour
or two dedicated folely to playful converfation. In like
manner, every Saturday he had a lefs feleft party to
dinner at a houfe about a mile from town. ^ The Doc¬
tor’s long life gave him occafion to fee the dramatis
perfome of this little theatre feveral times completely
changed, while he continued to give it a perfonal iden¬
tity : fo that, without any defign or with of his own,
it became, as it were, his own houfe and his own fami¬
ly, and went by his name. In this ftate did the prefent
writer firft fee it, with Dr Simfon as its father and
head, refpefted and beloved by every branch ; for, as it
was for relaxation,' and not for the enjoyment of his
acknowledged fuperiority, that he continued this habit
of his early youth •, and as his notions “ of a fine talk”
did not confift in the pleafure of having 44 toffed and
o-ored a good many to-day,” his companions were as
much at their eafe as he wiihed to be himfelfand it
was no fmall part of their entertainment (and of his too),
to fmile at thofe innocent deviations from common
forms, and thofe miftakes with refpeft to life and man¬
ners, which an almoft total retirement from the world,
and inceffant occupation in an abftraft fcience, caufed
this venerable prefident frequently to exhibit. Thcfe
are remembered with a more affefting regret, that they
are now 44 with the days that are part,” than the moft
pithy apophthegms, ulhered in with an emphatical,
44 Why, Sir !” or 44 No, Sir !” which precludes all re¬
ply. Dr Simfon never exerted his prefidial authority,
unlefs it were to check fome infringement of good breed¬
ing, or any thing that appeared unfriendly to religion or
purity of manners ; for thefe he had the higheft rever¬
ence. We have twice heard him fing (he had a fine
voice and moft accurate ear) fome lines of a Latin hymn
to the Divine Geometer, and each time the rapturous
tear ftood in his eye.
74 ] SIN
But we alk the reader’s pardon for this digreftion ; it
is not however ufelefs, fince it paints the man as much as
any recital of his ftudies \ and to his acquaintances we
are certain that it will be an acceptable memorandum.
To them it was often matter of regret, that a perfon of
fuch eminent talents, which would have made him ftiine
equally in any line of life, fhould have allowed himfelf
to be fo completely devoted to a fludy which abftrafted
him from the ordinary purfuits of men, unfitted him for
the aftive enjoyment of life, and kept him out of thole
walks which they frequented, and where they would have
rejoiced to meet him.
Dr Simfon was of an advantageous ftature, with a
fine countenance ; and even in his old age had a grace¬
ful carriage and manner, and always, except when in
mourning, dreffed in white cloth. He was of a cheer¬
ful dil’pofition ; and though he did not make the firft;
advances to acquaintance, had the moft affable manner,
and ftrangers were at perfeft eafe in his company. He
enjoyed a long courfe of uninterrupted health j but to¬
wards the clofe of life fuffersd from an acute difeafe,
and was obliged to employ an affiftant in his profeflional
labours for a few years preceding his death, which hap¬
pened in 1768, at the age of 81. He left to the uni¬
verfity his valuable library, which is now arranged apart
from the reft of the books, and the public ufe of it is
limited by particular rules. It is confidered as the moft
choice colleclion of mathematical books and manufcripts
in the kingdom, and many of them are rendered doubly
valuable by Dr Simfon’s notes.
SIN, a breach or tranfgreflion of fome divine law or
command.
SINAI, or Sima, a famous mountain of Arabia Pe-
trcea, upon which God gave the law to Mofes. It
ftands in a kind of peninfula, formed by the two arms
of the Red fea, one of which ftretches out towards the
north, and is called the gulf of Ko/fum ; the other ex¬
tends towards the eaft, and is called the gulf of E/an,
or the Elanitijh fea. At this day the Arabians call
Mount Sinai by the name of Ter, that is, the 44 moun¬
tain,” by way of excellence ; or Gibel or libel Moufa,
44 the mountain of Mofes.” It is 260 miles from Cairo,
and generally it requires a journey of ten days to travel
thither. The wildernefs of Sinai, where the Ifraelites
continued encamped for almoft a year, and where Mofes
erefted the tabernacle of the covenant, is confiderably
elevated above the reft of the country ; and the afeent
to it is by a very craggy way, the greateft part of which
is cut out of the rock ; then one comes to a large fpace
of ground, which is a plain furrounded on all fides by
rocks and eminences, whofe length is nearly 1 2 miles.
Towards the extremity of this plain, on the north fide,
two high mountains {how themfelves, the higheft of
which is called Sinai and the other Horeb. The tops of
Horeb and Sinai have a very fteep afeent, and do not
ftand upon much ground, in comparifon to their extra¬
ordinary height : that of Sinai is at leaft one-third part
higher than the other, and its afeent is more upright
and difficult.
Two German miles and a half up the mountain ftands
the convent of St Catharine. The body of this mona-
ftery is a building 120 feet in length and almoft as
many in breadth. Before it ftands another fmall
building, in which is the only gate of the convent,
which remains always (hut, except when the biftiop is
Niebuhr's
Travels,
vol i.
p. 192.
2
S i N
Sinai here. At other times, whatever is introduced within
11 the convent, whether men or provifions, is drawn up by
Slnffy- the roof in a bafket, and with a cord and a pulley. I he
wi10ie building is of hewn ftone ; which, in fuch a ^de-
fert, mull have coft prodigious expence and pains. Near
this chapel hTues a fountain of very good freih water;
it is looked upon as miraculous by fome who cannot con¬
ceive how water can flow from the brow of lo high and
barren a mountain. live or fix paces from it they
fhow a ilone, the height ot which is four or five feet, and
breadth about three, which, they fay, is the very ftone
■whence Mofes caufed the water to gufh out. Its co¬
lour is of a fpotted gray, and it is as it were fet in a
kind of earth, where no other rock appears. J his ftone
has 12 holes or channels, which are about a foot wide,
whence it is thought the water came forth for the If-
raelites to drink.
Much has been faid of the writings to be feen at Sinai
and in the plain about it j and fucli were the hopes
of difcoveries refpeifting the wanderings of the liraelites
from thefe writings, that Dr Clayton biihop of Clogher
offered 500I. fterling to defray the expences of journey
to any "man of letters who would undertake to copy
them. No man, we believe, undertook this talk: and
the accurate Danith traveller Niebuhr found no writings
there, but the names of perfons who had viffted the
place from curiofity, and of Egyptians who had chofen
to be buried in that region.
SINAPIS, Mustard, a genus of plants belonging
to the clafs tetradynamia, and to the order Jihquofa;
and in the natural fyffem ranged under the 39th order,
Siliquofce. See Botany hidex.
SINAPISryl, in Pharmacy, an external medicine, in
form of a cataplafm, compofed chiefly of muftard-leed
pulverized, and other ingredients mentioned in the pre¬
ceding article. s.
SINCERITY, honefty of intention, freedom from
bypocrify. See Moral Philosophy, N° I57*
' SINCIPUT, in Anatomy, the forepart of the head,
reaching from the forehead to the coronal future.
SINDY, a province of Hindoftan Proper, bounded
on the weft by Makran, a province of Perfia j on the
north by the territories of the king of Candahar j on
the north-eaft by thofe of the Seiks; on the eaft by a
fandy defert j and on the fouth-eaft by Cutch. It ex¬
tends along the courfe of the river Sinde or Indus from
its mouth to Behker or Bhakor, on the frontiers of
Moultan. Reckoned that way, it is 300 miles long •,
and its breadth, in its wideft part, is about 160. In
many particulars of foil and climate, and in the general
appearance of the furface, Sindy refembles Egypt ; the
lower part of it being compofed of rich vegetable mould,
and extended into a wide dell 5 while the upper part of
it is a narrow flip of country, confined on one fide by a
ridge of mountains, and on the other by a fandy defert,
the river Indus, equal at leaft to the Nile, winding
through the midft of this level valley, and annually
overflowing it. During great part of the fouth-weft
monfoon, or at leaft in the months of duly, ikuguft,
and part of September, which is the rainy feafon in moft:
other parts of India, the atmofphere is here generally
clouded ; but no rain falls except very near the fea. In¬
deed, very few fhowers fall during the whole year 5
owing to which, and the neighbourhood of the fandy
deferts, which bound it on the eaft and on the north-
] SIN
weft, the heats are fo violent, and the winds from thofe Sindy
quarters fo pernicious, that the houfes are contrived fo !>.
as to be occafionaily ventilated by means of apertures . j n^nf
on the tops of them, refembling the funnels of fmall
chimneys. When the hot winds prevail, the windows
are clofely fhut; and the lowed part of the current
of air, which is always the hotted, being thus exclu¬
ded, a cooler, becaufe more elevated, part defcends into
the houfe through the funnels. By this contrivance
alfo vaft clouds of dull are excluded j the entrance of
which would alone be bifficient to render the houfes un¬
inhabitable. The roofs are compofed of thick layers
of earth inflead of terraces. Few countries are more
unwholefome to European confutations, particularly
the lower part of the Delta. The prince of this pro¬
vince is a Mahometan, tributary to the king of Can¬
dahar. Pie refides at Hydrabad, although Tatta is the
capital. The Hindoos, who were the original inhabi¬
tants of Sindy, are by their Mahometan governors treat¬
ed with great rigour, and denied the public exercife of
their religion j and this feverity drives vaft numbers of
them into other countries. The inland parts of Sindy
produce faltpetre, fal-ammoniac, borax, bezoar, lapis la¬
zuli, and raw ftlk. They have alfo manu a&ories of
cotton and filk of various kinds; and they make fine
cabinets, inlaid with ivory, and finely lackered. They
alfo export great quantities of butter, clarified and
wrapt up in duppas, made of the hides of cattle. J. he
ladies wear hoops of ivory on both their arms and legs,
which when they die are burnt with them. They have
large black cattle, excellent mutton, and fmall hardy
horfes. Their wild game are deer, hares, antelopes,
and foxes, which they hunt with dogs, leopards, and a
fmall fierce creature called a ftiiahgulh.
SINE, or Right SINE of an Arch, in Trigonometry,
is a right line drawn from one end of that arch, perpen¬
dicular to the radius drawn to the other end of the arch $
being always equal to half the cord of twice the arch.
See Trigonometry and Geometry.
SINECURE, a nominal office, which has a revenue
without any employment.
SINEW, a tendon, that which unites the mufcles to
the bones.
SINGING, the aflion of making divers inflexions
of the voice, agreeable to the ear, and correfpondent
to the notes of a fong or piece of melody. See Me¬
lody.
The firft thing to be done in learning to fing, is to
raife a fcale of notes by tones and femitones to an oftave,
and defcend by the fame notes j and then to rife and
fall by greater intervals, as a third, fourth, fifth, &c.
and to do all this by notes of diffeient pitch. Then
thefe notes are reprefented by lines and fpaces, to which
the fyllables fa, fol, la, mi, are applied, and the pupil
taught to name each line and fpace thereby j whence
this praftice is called fol-faing, the nature, reafon, efteXs,
&c. whereof, fee under the article SolFAING.
Singing of Birds. It is worthy of obfervation, that
the female of no fpecies of birds ever fings : with birds
it is the reverfe of what occurs in human kind. Among
the feathered tribe, all the cares of life fall to the lot of
the tender fex ; theirs is the fatigue of incubation ; and
the principal fhare in nurfing the helplefs brood : to al¬
leviate thefe fatigues, and to fupport her under them,
nature hath given to the male the fong, with all the
little
[ 37s
S 1 N [3
Sn-|mg little blandirtiments and foothing arts j tliefe he fondly
Sinking. exer^s (even alter courtihip) on fome fpray contiguous
—-V-1 »i nefl, during the time his mate is performing her
parental duties. But that fhe fhould be filent is alfo
another wife provifion of nature, for her fong would
diicover her nett j as would a gaudinefs of plumage,
xvhich, for the fame reafon, feems to have been denied
her.
On the fong of birds feveral curious experiments and
obfervations have been made by the Hon. Haines Bar¬
rington. See Phil. Tranf. vol. Ixiii.
SINGULAR number, in Grammar, that number of
nouns and verbs which ftands oppofed to plural. See
Grammar, N° 14.
SINISTER, fomething on or towards the left hand.
Hence lome derive the word JiniJler a Jinendo ; becaufe
the gods, by fuch auguries, permit us to proceed in our
defigns.
Sinister, is ordinarily ufed among us for unlucky j
though,^ in the facred rites of divination, the Romans
ufed it in an oppolite fenfe. Thus avis JbiiJlra, or a bird
on the left hand, was efteemed a happy omen : whence,
in the law of the 12 tables, Ave JiniJlra popuh mogifler
ejlo.
Sinister, in Heraldry. The finifter fide of an ef-
cutcheon is the left-hand fide j the finifter chief, the left
angle of the chief; the finifter bafe, the left-hand part
of the bafe.
SINISTER AfpeB, among aftrologers, is an appearance
of two planets happening according to the fucceflion of
the figns 5 as Saturn in Aries, and Mars in the fame de¬
gree of Gemini.
SINISTRI, a fet of ancient heretics, thus called
becaufe they held the left hand in abhorrence, and made
it a point of religion not to receive any thing there¬
with.
FUND> a provifion made by parliament,
confifting of the furplufage of other funds, intended to
be appropriated to the payment of the national debt 5 on
the credit of which very large fums have been borrowed
for public ufes.
As the funding fyftem had been adopted in other
countries long before it was reforted to in Great Bri¬
tain, a provifion of this kind had appeared neceffary at
a much earlier period, and had been eftablifiied in Hol¬
land in 1655, ar)d in the ecclefiaftical ftates in 1685.
hefe funds were both formed by the redudlion of the
intereft on the public debts, and by appropriating the
annual fum thus faved to the gradual difcharge of the
principal.
. the reign of King William, when the mode of pro¬
viding for extraordinary expences was firft adopted in
this country, the particular tax on which money was
borrowed, generally produced much more than was fuf-
ficient to pay the annual intereft, and the furplus was
applied in finking the principal, which was generally
effe&ed in a few years. Had this plan been purfued,
there never could have been any great accumulation of
public debts; but, as the expenditure increafed, and the
neceffity of loans of ftill greater amount became more
frequent, it was found difficult to provide for the annual
intereft of the fums thus borrowed ; and the repayment
of the principal was either put off to a diftant period,
or left without any provifion to the chance of more flou-
rjlhing times.
76 ] ^ sin
Some oi the eftefts of an accumulating public debt Sinking.
foon became evident in the difcount at which all govern-' v  
ment fecurities fold, and in the difficulties experienced
in providing for the annual expenditure 5 the propriety
of reducing, and even of wholly difcharging, the debt,
was generally acknowledged ; and the plan of a finking
fund was recommended in a pamphlet publilhed in 170/!
In 1713 Mr Archibald Hutchifon prefented to George
I. a plan for payment of the public debts. In 171c
different proje&s for this purpofe were publilhed by Ed-
waid Leigh, Mr Afgill, and others. And in 1717 a
plan for the gradual difcharge of the debt was adually
adopted, which was afterwards generally known by the
name of the finking fund.
For a few years the fund was ftridly applied to the
purpofes for which it was eftabliffied ; and fo well were
its natuie and importance then underitood, that money
was at the lame time borrow'ed for extraordinary ex¬
pences. In 1724, the fum of 15,144!. iys. wTas taken
from the fund, to make good the lots to the trealury
from the redu&ion of the value of gold coin 5 and with¬
in 12 years from its eflablilhment it was charged with
the intereft of new loans. In 1733, the grofs fum of
half a million was taken from it towards the fupplies,
at which time the medium annual produce of the fund
for five years had been 1,212,000!. This amount would
have fully difcharged the debt which then exifted, but
the alienation of it was continued.
This was fucceeded by the confolidated fund, one ob-
jeft of which was, to lay the foundation of a new fink¬
ing fund, and confifting, like the old one, in the appli¬
cation of the principle of compound intereft. On this
occasion Mr Pitt confulted the late Dr Price, who com¬
municated three plans, one of which wTas aftenvards
adopted, but with fuch alterations as greatly affefted its
efficacy, and which it has been fince found neceffary to
corredl. By the aft palled for carrying this fcheme in¬
to execution, the annual fum of i,ooo,oool. was placed
in the hands of commiffioners, to be iffued in four equal
quarterly payments, and to be applied either in paying
off fuch redeemable annuities as were at or above par,
or in the purchafe of annuities below par, at the market-
price.
On the 17th of February, 1792, Mr Pitt propofed
that the fum of 400,000!. fhould be iffued in addition
to the million, for the purpofe of accelerating the ope¬
ration of the fund : and ftated that it might be expeft-
ed that 25 millions of 3 per cents would be paid off
by the year 1800; and that in the year 1808, the fund
would amount to 4,000,000!. per annum, the fum to
which it was then reftrifted. The injudicious reftric-
tion of the fund to 4,000,000!. per annum, was done
away by an aft paffed in 1802, which direfted that the
produce of the two funds fhould continue to accumulate,
without any limitation as to its amount, and be from
time to time applied, according to the former provifions,
in the redemption or purchafe of flock, until the whole
of the perpetual redeemable annuities, exifting at the
time of palling the aft, fhall have been completely paid
off. At the fame time, the annual grant of 2co,ocol.
in aid of the fund, was made a permanent charge, to
be iffued in quarterly payments from the confolidated
fund, in the fame manner as the original million per
annum. In confequence of thele improvements, the in3
creafe of the fund has been much greater than it was
originally
Sinking
Sinu*.
3 I N
originally eftimated j and on the ift of February, 1806
was as follows : ’
C 377 ]
3 I R
Annual charge by ad of 26 Geo.
.in. . - 1
Ditto 42 Geo. III.
Annuities for 99 and 96 years, ex¬
pired 1792
Short annuities, expired 1787
Life annuities, unclaimed and ex¬
pired *
Dividend on 98,386,402!. at 3 per
cent.
Ditto on 2,617.400!. at 4 per cent.
Ditto oh 142,000!. at 3 per cent.
One per cent, on capitals erefted
Cnee 1723
. 1,000,000
200,000
54.880
25,000
o
o
H
o
5°>3c8 5 7
2,95L592
104,696
7,100
3,202,672 1 10
Total, L. 7,596,249 3 1
^ ‘This fum is exclufive of the fund for the reduftion
©t the public debt of Ireland, which at the above period
amounted to 479,5371- 8s- of the fund for reduction
ed the imperial debt, which amounted to 56,960!. 9s.
. The progrefs of the fund from the commencement of
its operation on ill Auguft 1786, to the lit February
1806, will appear from the following ftatem'ent of the
total amount of the Hock redeemed by the commiflioners
up to the latter period.
Confolidated 3 per cent, annuities
Reduced 3 per cent, annuities
Old South Tea annuities
New South fea annuities
Three per cents 1751
Coniolidated 4 per cent, annuities
Navy 5 per cent, annuities
.39,922,421
51,493,9 81
3,492,000
2,783,000
695,000
2,617,400
142,000
Total, L.101,145,802
1 he total fum which had been paid for this amount
of Hock was, 62,842,782!. 7s. xod. the confolidated 3
per cents having been bought up on an average at 6il.
per cent, and the reduced at fomewhat lefs.
The progrefs already made by the fund, and the im¬
portant effecd it has had in fupporting the value of the
government fecunties at a time when it has been necef-
lary to borrow unprecedented Aims in almoft every year
fufficiently demonftrate the great utility of this meafure.
A.-i its increafe will be continually augmenting, it will
if Readily perfevered in, and faithfully applied, become’
ultimately capable of difebarging a debt of any amount
with which it is pofliblc to fuppofe the country will ever
be encumbered.
SINOPLE, in Heraldry, denotes vert, or green co¬
lour in armories.—Sinoplc is ufed to fignify love, youth,
beauty, rejoicing, and liberty j whence it is that letters
o, grace, ambition, legitirdation, &c. are always fealed
with green wax.
SINUOSITY, a feries of bends and turns in arches
or other irregular figures, fometimes jutting out and
'iomelimes falling in. 0
denotes a caT% in certain bones
Vor. XIX. Part I.
Siplio*
11
Siren*.
 vJ
and other parts, the entrance whereof is very narrow,
and the bottom wider and more Ipacious.
Sinus, in Surgery, a little cavity or facculus, fre-,
quently formed by a wound or ulcer, wdierein pus is col¬
lected.
SIPHON. See Hydrodynamics.
SIPHONANI HUS, a genus of plants belonging to
the clafs of tetrandria and order of monogynia. See Bo¬
tany Index.
SI FONT UM, Sepuntum, or Situs, in Ancient Geo-
gra/>/<y, a town of Apulia, fo denominated (according to
Strabo) from the great quantity of fepice or cuttlefilh
that aie thrown upon the coaft. Diomede is fuppofed by
tlm lame author to have been the founder of this place j
v. hich appears from Livy to have become a colony of
Roman citizens. In the early ages of ChriHian hierar¬
chy, a bifliop was fixed in this church ; but, under the
Lombards, his fee was united to that of Beneventum.
Being again feparated, Sipontum became an archiepif-
copal dioccfe in 1094, about which time it was fo ill
treated by the Barbarians, that it never recovered its
fpiendour, but iunk into fuch milery, that in 1260 it
was a mere defert, from the want of inhabitants, the de¬
cay of commerce, and the infalubrity of the air. Man¬
fred having taken thefe circumHances into confideration,
began in 1261 to build a new city on the fea-fhore, t»
which he removed the few remaining Sipontines. (See
the article Manfredonia). Sipontum was fituated at
the cndance of a mile from the fiiore. Excepting a part
of its Gothic cathedral, fcarce one ftone of the ancient
city now remains upon another.
SIPUNCULUS, in Natural Hiflory, a genus of the
clafs of vermes, and order inteftina. See Helmintho¬
logy Index.
SIR, ^the title of a knight or baronet, which, for di-
finidion’s fake, as it is now given indiferiminately to all
men, is always prefixed to the knight’s Chriflian name*,
either in (peaking or writing to them.
SIRCAR, any office under the government in Hin-
doflan. It is fometimes ufed for the Hate of government
itfelf. Likewife a province, or any number of pergun-
nahs placed under one head in the government books,
for conveniency in keeping accounts. In common ufage
in Bengal, the under banyans of European gentleman
are called Jtrcars.
SIRE, a title of honour formerly given to the kinu-
of France as a mark of fovereignty. *
. Sire, was likewife anciently ufed in the fame fenfe
with fteur and feigneur, and applied to barons, gentle¬
men, and citizens.
SIRENS, in fabulous hiftory, certain celebrated fong-
fhetles who were ranked among the demigods of anti¬
quity. Hygirms places their birth among the confe-
quences ot the rape of Proferpine. Others make them
daughters of the river Achelous and one of the mufes*
I he number of the Sirens was three, and their names Eb iv.
were Parthempe, Lygca, and Leucofta. Some make
them half women and half fifli ; others, half women
and half birds. ^ Ihere are antique reprefentatipns of
them 160 (ubfiuing under both theie forms. Paufanias
tells us, that the Sirens, by the perfuafion of June, chal¬
lenged the Mufes to a trial of (kill in finging ; and thefe
having vanquifhed them, plucked the golden feathers
from the wings of the Sirens, and formed them into
3’ H crowns,
SIR t 37
Sirens, crowns, with which they adorned their ow?n heads. The
   * Argonauts are faid to have been diverted from the en¬
chantment of their fongs by the fupenor ftrains of Or¬
pheus : Ulyffes, however, had great difficulty in fecur-
ing himfelf from feduftion. See Ochjf lib. xii.
Pope, in his notes to the twelfth book of the Odyf-
fey, obferves, the critics have greatly laboured to explain
what was the foundation of this fiflion of the Sirens.
We are told by fome, that the Sirens were queens of
certain fmall iflands named Sirenufcc, that lie near Ca-
prma in Italy, and chiefly inhabited the promontory of
Minerva, upon the top of which that goddefs had a
temple, as fame affirm, built by Ulyffes. Here there
was a renowned academy, in the reign of the Sirens,
famous for eloquence and the liberal fciences, which
gave occafion to the invention of this fable of the fweet-
nefs of the voice and atlra&ing fongs of the Sirens.. But
why then are they fabled to be deftroyers, and painted
in fuch dreadful colours ? We are told, that at laft the
fludents abufed their knowledge, to the colouring of
wrong, the corruption of manners, and the fubverfion of
government: that is, in the language of poetry, they were
feigned to be transformed into monflers, and writh their
mufic to have enticed paffengers to their ruin, who there
confumed their patrimonies, and poifoned their virtues
with riot and effeminacy. The place is now called
MaJJa. Some writers tell us of a certain bay, contfafled
within winding ftraits and broken cliffs, which, by the
finging of the winds and beating of the waters, returns
a delightful harmony, that allures the paffenger to ap¬
proach, who is immediately thrown againft the rocks,
and fwallowed up the violent eddies. Thus Horace,
moralifing, calls idlenefs a Siren.
  Vitanda ejl improba Siren
Defidw. —
But the fable may be applied to all pleafures m ge¬
neral, which, if too eagerly purfued, betray the incau¬
tious into ruin •, while wife men, like. Ulyfies, making
ufe of their reafon, flop their ears againft their mfinua-
tions. „ , , „.
The learned Mr Bryant fays, that the Sirens were
Cuthite and Canaanitilh priefts, who had founded tem-
oles in Sicily, which were rendered infamous on account
of the women who officiated. They were much ad-
difted to cruel rites, fo that the ffiores upon which they
refuled are defcribed as covered with the bones of men
deftroyed by their artifice. Virgil. JEncid. lib. v.
ver. 864. . .
All ancient authors agree in telling us, that Sirens in¬
habited the coaft of Sicily. The name, according to
Bochart, who derives it from the Phoenician language,
implies a fongftrefs. Hence it is prpbable, fays Dr Bur-
ney, that in ancient times there may have been excellent
fiiwers, but of’corrupt morals, on the coaft of Sicily,
who, by feducing voyagers, gave rife to this xable. And
if this conjeaure be well founded,. he obferves, the
Mufes are not the only pagan divinities who. preferved
their influence over mankind in modern times }
every age has its Sirens, and every Siren her votaries;
when beauty and talents, doth powerful.m themfelves,
are united, they become ftill more attradive.
Siren, in Zoology, a genus of animals belonging to
the clafs of amphibia and the order of meantes. It is
a biped, naked, and furnifhed with a tail; the feet are
Sirens
ti
Sifyphus.
8 ] SI S
brachiated with claws. This animal was difeovered by
Dr Garden in Carolina it is found in fvvampy and
muddy places, by the fides of pools, under the trunks ^ 
of old trees that hang over the water. The natives Tranf.
call it by the name of tnud-inguana. Linnaeus firft ap-vol. Ivi.
prehended, that it was the larva of a kind of lizard jP- lS9-
but as its fingers are furniffied with claws, and it makes
a croaking noife, he concluded from thefe properties, as
well as from the fituation of the anus, that it could not
be the larva of the lizard, and therefore formed of it a
new genus under the name of Jiren. He was alfo obli¬
ged to eftabliffi for this uncommon animal a new order
called meantes or gliders ; the animals of which are am¬
phibious, breathing by means of gills and lungs, and fur-
nilhed with arms and claws.
SIREX, a genus of infefts belonging to the order of
hymenopleree. See Entomology Index.
SIKIUM, a genus of plants belonging to the clafs of
tetrandria and order of monogynia. See Botany In¬
dex.
SIRIUS, in AJlronomy, a bright ftar in the conftel-
lation Canis. See Astronomy, N° 403, &c.
STREET, Flavius, an eminent Roman engraver on
precious ftones: his Laocoon, and reprefentations in mi¬
niature of antique ftatues at Rome, are very valuable and
fcarce. He died in 1737-
SIROCCO, a periodical wind which generally blows
in Italy and Dalmatia every year about Ealler. It
blows from the fouth-eaft by fouth :. it is attended with
heat, but not rain •, its ordinary period is twenty days, Fort us
and it ufually ceafes at funfet. When the firocco does Travels in-
not blow in this manner, the fummer is almoft .free from ma'
wefterly winds, whirlwinds, and ftorms. This wind isp>k
prejudicial to plants, drying and burning up the buds j
though it hurts not men any otherwife than by caufing
an extraordinary weaknefs and laffitude •, inconveniences
that are fully compenfated by a plentiful fifhing, and a
good crop of corn on the mountains. In the fummer
time, when the wefterly wind ceafes for a day, it is a
fign that the firocco will blow the day following, which
ufually begins with a fort of whirlwind.
SISKIN. See Fringilla, Ornithology Index.
SISON, BASTARD stone parsley, a genus of plants
belonging to the clafs of pentandria, and to the order of
digynia ; and in the natural fyftem arranged under the
43th order, umbcllatce. See Botany Inaex.
SISTRUM, or ClSTRUM, a kind of ancient mufi-
cal inftrument ufed by the priefts of Ifis and Ohris.
It is deferibed by Spon as of an oval form, in manner
of a racket, with three fticks travelling it breadthwrfe j
which playing freely by the agitation, of the whale rn-
ftrument, yielded a kind of found which to them feem-
ed melodious. Mr Malcom takes the fiftrum to be no
better than a kind of rattle. Oifclius obferves, that the
fiftrum is found reprefented on feveral mecals, and on
talifmans.
SISYMBRIUM, WATER-CRESES, a genus of plants
belonging to the clafs of tetradiynamia, and to the order
of Jiliquofa ; and in the natural fyftem ranged under the
39th order, Siliquofce. See Botany Index.
SISYPHUS, in fabulous hiftory, one of the defeen-
dents of Eolus, married Merope, one of the- Pieiades,
who bore him Glaucus. He refi’ded at Epyra in Peio-
ponnefns, and was a very crafty man, Others fay, that
he wras a Trojan fecretary, who was punifhed for difeo-
vering
277.
S I u
[ 379 1
S I w
Siryrinclii- vering fecrels of itate ; and others again, that he tvas a
notorious robber, killed by Thefeus. ^ However, all the
poets agree that he was punilhed in Tartarus for his
i crimes, by rolling a great ftone to the top of a hi ,
which conftantly recoiled, and, rolling down incedantly,
renewed Ins labour. . ,
SISYR1NCHIUM, a genus of plants belonging to the
clafs of gynandria, and order of tnandna ; and in the
natural fyftem ranged under the 5th order, Enjatce. oee
Botany Index. r , r o .1 r
SITE, denotes the fituation of anhouie, 6cc. ancllome-
times the ground-plot or fpot of earth on which it ftands.
SITTA, Nuthatch, a genus of birds belonging to
the order of fiicce. See Ornithology Index.
SITOPHYLAX, formed from <riro;
« corn,” and <pvX*t “ keeper,” in antiquity, an Athe¬
nian magiftrate, who had the fupenntendence oi the
corn, and was to take care that nobody bought more
than was neceiTary for the provifion ot his family. Ly
the Attic laws, particular perfons were prohioiled rrom
buying more than fifty meafures of wheat a man ; and
that fuch perfons might not purchafe more, the fitophy-
lax was appointed to fee the laws properly executed. It
was a capital crime to prevaricate in it. There were
1 - of thefe Jitophylaces, ten for the city, anu five for the
Pirgeus.
SITUS, in Algebra and Geometry, denotes the fitua¬
tion of lines, furfaces, &c. Worfius delivers fame things
in geometry, which are not deduced from common ana-
lyfis, particularly matters depending on \hejltus of lines
and * figures. Leibnitz has even founded a particular
kind of analyfis upon it, called calculusJitus.
SIVA, a name given by the Hindoos to the Supreme
Beincr, when confidered as the avenger or deflroyer. Sir
William Jones has fhown that in feveral reipefts the cha-
rafter of fupiter and Siva are the fame. As Jupiter
AHatic Re- overthrew the Titans and giants, fo did Siva overthrow
Searches. the Daityas, or children of Dili, who frequently rebel¬
led a'jainft Heaven ; and as during the conteu the god
of Olympus was furnifaed with lightning and thunder¬
bolts bv an eagle, fo Brahma, who is fometimes iTpre-
fented riding on the Garuda, or eagle, prefented the
god of deftruaion with fiery fhafts. Siva alfo corre-
iponds with the Stygian Jove, or Pluto ; for, if we can
rely on a Perfian tranflation of the Bhagavat, the Sove¬
reign of Patala, or the infernal regions, is the king of
ferpents, named Se/hanaga, who is exhibited m painting
and fculpture, with a diadem and fceptre, in the fame
manner as Pluto. There is yet. another attribute of
Siva, or Mahadeva, by -which he is vifibly diihnguifhed
in the drawings and temples of Bengal, lo defiroy, ac¬
cording to the Vedantis of India, the Sufis of Perfia,
and many philofophers of our European fchools, is only
to generate and reproduce in another form. Hence the
trod of deftruftion is holden in this country to prefide
over generation, as a fymbolof which he rides on a white
bull. Can we doubt that the loves and feats of Jupiter
Genitor (not forgetting the white bull of.Europa),. and
his extraordinary title of Lapis, for which no fatisfac-
tory reafon is commonly given, have a conneaion with
the Indian philofophy and mythology ?
SIUM, Water Parsnep, a genus of plants belong¬
ing to the clafs of pentandna, and order of digynia, and
in the natural fyftem ranging under the 44th order, Im-
b el/a tee. See Botany Index.
SIWA, or SlWAH, a town in Egypt to the weft-
ward of Alexandria, built on a fmall fertile fpot, fur-
rounded on all fides by defert land. A confiderable
portion oi this fpace is filled with date trees,, but there
— alfo plantains, pomegranates, figs, apricots, and
olives ; and the gardens are in a very fiourifhing condi¬
tion. The people cultivate rice, which is of a reddifli
colour, and different from that of the delta. The reft:
of the land furnifties abundance of wheat for the con-
fumption of the inhabitants.
The greateft curiofity about Siwa is a ruin of un¬
doubted antiquity, meafuring 32 feet in length, 18 in
height, and 15 in breadth, which does not appear ever to
have been much larger. Mr Horneman eftimates the
dimenfions of it at 36 feet long, 24 feet wide, and 27
high, which agrees with no other traveller whatever;
and indeed Mr Horneman himfelf allows that the jea-
loufy of the natives prevented him from purfuing any
plan of accurate examination or admeafurement. .The
people of Siwa have no tradition refpeaing this edifice,
nor attribute any quality to it, but that of concealing
treafures, and as the haunt of demons. It has, however,
been fuppofed, that Siwa is the Siropum of Pliny, and
that this building was coeval with the temple of J.upitex
Ammon, and a dependency on it ; yet neither the na¬
tives of Siwa, nor the various tribes of Arabs who fre¬
quent that place, know any thing of the rums of tnat
temple, about which Mr Browne made every pofiiblc
enquiry. ...
The complexion of the people ot Siwa is generally
darker than that of the Egyptians, and their dialed is
alfo different. They do not habitually make ufe^oi
fnuff or tobacco. Their fed is that of Malik. The
drefs of the lower clafs is very fimple, as they are.almoft
naked j among thofe whofe coftume was difcernihle, it
approaches nearer to that ol the Arabs of the delert
than the Egyptians or Moors. Their clothing confifts
of a fhirt of white cotton, with large fieeves reaching to
the feet, a red cap without a turban, and fhoes of the
fame colour. Some earthen ware made by tbemfelves,
and a few mats, form the chief part of their houfehold
furniture, none but the higher ranks being poffeffed of
copper utenfils. They fometimes purchafe. a few fiaves
from the Mourzouk caravan. The reft of their wants
are fupplied from Cairo or Alexandria, whither their
dates are tranfported, both in a dry ftate, and beaten
into mafti, which, when good, greatly, refembl.es a fweet
meat. They do not eat large quantities of animal fooo,
and bread known to us is uncommon. They drink plen¬
tifully of the liquor extraded from the date tree, which
they call date-tree water, though it has frequently thv,
power of inebriating in tne ftate m which they drink it.
Their animals are the hairy fheep and goat of Eg^pt,
the afs, and a very fmall number of oxen and camels.
The women wear veils as in Egypt.. After the. rains,
the ground in the vicinity of Siwa is covered with fait
for many weeks.
Siwa has fometimes been compared to a bee hive,
which it very much refembles, whether in refped to the
general appearance of the eminence covered wdth build¬
ings, the fwarm of its people crowded together, or the
confufed noife, or hum and buz from its narrow paffages
and ftreets, and which reach the ear at a confiderable
diftance. North-weft of the town there is a.ftratum of
fait extending a full mile, and near it fait is found on
3 B 2 the
1
Six
SIX
Sixtus.
the furfase. There are numerous fprmgs, and frequently
a fpnng of water perfectly f. eet is found within a few
- PaCeS of one thf ls kit. The people, according to
Horneman are obtrufive and thievifh. Siwa is fituated
f fv'r N' Lat'and 44° 54' E- Long.
MX-Clerks officers in chancery of great account,
ext in degree below the twelve mailers, whofe bufmefs
VS t0R-enur0lrCTmiffi°nS’ Pardons» patents, warrants,
txc. which pafs the great leal, and to tranfaft and file
a. Proceedings by bill, anfwcr, &c. They were an-
ciently c/enci, and forfeited their places, if they mar-
ried j but when the conflitution of the court began to
alter, a law was made to permit them to marry, Stat.
14- and 15. Hen. VIII. cap. 8. They are alfo folici-
tois for parties m fmts depending in the court of chan-
cery. Under them are fix deputies and 6o clerks, who,
orv ndcr cIerks’ do the b«fioefs of the office.
MX Nations. See Niagara.
SIXTH, in Mujtc, one of the fimple original con¬
cords, or harmomcal intervals. See Intervat
SIXTUS V. Pope, was born'the 13th December,
V21’ TJ- r Marca’ a Vl!lage in the feigniory of Mont-
alto. His father, Francis Peretti, was a gardener, and
his mother a fervant maid. He was their eldeft child,
and was called Felix. At the age of nine he was
hired out to an inhabitant of the village to keen
ffieep ; but difobhgmg his matter, he was foon after
degraded to be keeper of the hogs. He was en-
gaged in this employment when Father Michael An-
gem Selleri, a Francifcan friar, afked the road to Af-
coli where he was going to preach. Young Felix
eonduaed him thither, and ftruck the father fo much
with his convention and eagernefs for knowledge, that
he recommended him to the fraternity to which he had
come Accordingly he was received among them, in¬
verted with the habit of a lay brother, and placed un¬
der the facnrtan, to affift in fweeping the church, light¬
ing the candles, and other offices of that nature i^for
winch he was to be taught the refponfes, and the rudi¬
ments of grammar. His progrefs in learning was fo fur-
pnfing, that at the age of 14 he was thought qualified
to begin his noviciate, and was admitted the year follow¬
ing to make his profeffion.
He purfued his ftudies with fuch unwearied affiduity
that he was foon reckoned equal to the beft difputants!
He was ordained prieft in 1545, when he affirmed the
name of Father Montalto ; foon after he took his doc¬
tors degree, and was appointed profefibr of theology
at Sienna. It was then that he fo effeaually recom-
mended himfelf to Cardinal di Carpi, and his fecretary
Poffius that they ever remained his fteady friends.
Meanwhile the feverity and obftinacy of his temper
in certainly engaged him in difputes with his monaf-
tic brethren. FLs reputation for eloquence, which
w’as now fpread over Italy, about this time gain¬
ed him fome new friends. Among thefe were the
Co]onna family, and Father Ghifilieri. by whofe recom¬
mendation he was appointed inquifitor-general at V^-
nice : but he exercifed that office with fo much feveri-
ty, that he was obliged to flee precipitately from that
city. Upon this he went to Rome, where he was made
procurator-general of his order, and foon after accom-
pamed. Cardinal Buon Compagnon into Spain, as a
chaplain and confultor to the inquifition. There he
t 380 3
s 1 x
was treated with great refpea, and liberal offers were
made him to induce him to continue in Spain, which '
however, he could not be prevailed on to accept.
p. Jiif mcan !!mf> news were brought to Madrid that
I .us IV. was dead, and that Father Ghifilieri, who
had been made Cardinal Alexandrine by Paul IV. had
lucceeded him under the name of Pius V Thefe
t,dmgS filled Montalto with joy, and not withont Kl
Ion, for he was immediately inverted by the pontiff with
new dignities. He was made general of his order, bi-
ffiop of St Agatha, was foon after raifed to the digni¬
ty of cardinal, and received a penfion. About this
time he was employed by the pope to draw up the bill
of excommunication again!! Queen Elizabeth.
He oegan now to cart his eyes upon the papacy :
and in order to obtain it, formed and executed a plan
ol hypoenfy with unparalleled conrtancy -and fuccefs.
He became humbJe, patient, and affable. Fie changed
his drefs, his air, his words, and his aftions, fo com¬
pletely, that his moft intimate friends declared him a
new man. Never was there fuch an abfolute vic¬
tory gamed over the paffions j never was a fiftilious
character fo long maintained, nor the foibles of human
nature fo artfully concealed. He courted the ambafl'a-
dors °f every foreign power, but attached himfelf to
t le mterefts of none 5 nor did he accept a Angle favour
that would have laid him under any peculiar obligation.
Pie had formerly treated his relations with the greateft
tendernefs, but he now changed his behaviour altoge¬
ther. When his brother Anthony came to vifit him.
he lodged him in an inn, and fent him home next day’
c rarging him to inform his family that he was now dead
to his relations and the world.
When Pius V. died in 1572, he entered the conclave
with the other cardinals, but feemed altogether indiffe¬
rent about the eleftion, and never left his apartment ex¬
cept to his devotion. When folicited to join any party
he declined it, declaring that he was of no confequencel
and that he would leave the choice of a pope entirely
to perfons of greater knowledge and experience. When
Cardinal Buon Compagnon, who afi'umed the name of
Gregory XIII. was ekaed, Montalto affured him that
he never wiffied for any thing fo much in his life, and
that he would always remember his goodnefs, and the
favours he had conferred on him in Spain. But the
new pope treated him with the greateft contempt, and
deprived him of his penfion. The cardinals alfo, de¬
ceived by his artifices, paid him no greater refpea
and ufed to call him, by way of ridicule, the Roman
heart ; the afs of La Marca.
He now affumed all the infirmities of old are ; his
head hung down upon his ftioulders 5 he tottered as he
walked, and fupported himfelf on a ftaff. His voice
became feeble, and was often interrupted by a cough fo
exceedingly feyere, that it feemed every moment to
threaten his diffolution. He interfered in no public
tranfaaions, but fpent his whole time in ads of devo¬
tion and benevolence. Mean time he conftantly em¬
ployed the ableft fpies, who brought him intelligence
of every particular.
When Gregory XIII. died in 1585, he entered the
conclave with the greateft reluftance, and immediately
ffiut himfelf up in his chamber, and was no more
thought of than if he had not exifted. When he went
to
Sixtus.
SlXtTlS
SIX [38
to mafs, For which purpofe alone lie left his apartment,
he appeared perfeaiy indifferent about the event of the
eleftion. He joined no party, yet flattered all.
He knew early that there would be great divifians
in the conclave, and he was aware that when the leaders
of the different parties were difappointed in their own
views, they all frequently agreed in the ele&ion of fome
old and infirm cardinal, the length of whofe life would
nierely enable them to prepare themfelves fufficiently
for toe next vacancy. Thefe views diredled his condufl,
nor was he miftaken in his hopes of fuccefs.
. Three cardinals, the leaders of oppofite factions, be¬
ing unable to procure the eleaion which each of them
Wdhed, unanimoufly agreed to make choice of Mont-
alto. When they came to acquaint him with their in¬
tention, lie fell into fuch a violent fit of coughing that
every perfon thought he would expire on the fpot. He
told them that his reign would lafl: but a few days;
that, befides a continual difficulty of breathing, ’ he
wanted ffrength to fupport fuch a weight, and that his
imall experience rendered him very unfit for fo impor¬
tant a charge. He conjured them all three not to
abandon him, but to take the whole weight of affairs
upon their own flioulders; and declared that he would
never accept the mitre upon any other terms: “ If you
aie refolved,” added he, “ to make me pope, it will
enly be placing yourfelves on the throne. For my part
I fliall be fatisfied with the bare title. Let the worki
call me pope, and I make you heartily welcome to the
power and authority. The cardinals fwallowed the bmt
and exerted themfelves fo effectually that Montalto was
elected. He now pulled off the maik which he had
worn for 14 years. No fooner was his ele&ion fecured
than he flarted from his feat, flung down his ftaff in the
middle of the hall, and appeared almoft a foot taller
than he had done for feveral years.
When he was alked, according to cuftom, if he would
accept of the papacy, he replied, “ It is trifling to slk
whether I will accept what I have already accepted. 
However, to fatisfy any fcruple that may arife, I tell
you that I accept it with great pleafure, and would ac¬
cept another if I could get it ; for I find myfelf able,
by the Divine afliflance, to manage two papacies.” His
former complaifance and humility difappeared, together
with his infirmities, and he now treated all around him
wit1' referve and haughtinefs. The firft care of Six¬
tus V. the name which Montalto affumed, was to cor-
re& the abides, and put a flop to the enormities, which
were daily committed in every part of the ecclefiaftical
flate. The lenity of Gregory’s government had intro¬
duced a general licentioufnefs of manners, which burft
forth with great violence, after that pontiff’s death.
It had been ufual with former popes to releafe delin¬
quents on the day of their coronation, who were there¬
fore accufcomed to furrender themfelves voluntary pri-
foners immediately after the ele&ion of the .pope. At
prefent, however, they were fatally difappointed 
When the governor of Rome and the keeper of St
J. n£e/° waited on his Holinefs, to know his intention
in this particular, he replied, “ What have you to do
pardons, and releafing of prifoners ?' Is it not fuf-
ficient that our predeceffor has fuffered the judges to
remain unemployed thefe 13 years? Shall we alfo Rain
our pontificate with the fame negle& of juftice > We
irave too long feen, with inexpreffible concern, theprodi-
1 ] SIX
gious degree of wlckednefs that reigns in the Rare, to
think of granting pardons. Let the prifoners be brought(
to a fpeedy trial, and puniflied as they deferve, to Aiovr
the world that Divine Providence has called us to the
chair or St Peter, to reward the good, and chaflife the
wicked : that we bear not the fword in vain, but are the
mini Iters of God, and a revenger to execute wrath on
them that do evil.”
He appointed commiflioners to infpe& the condu&
or tne judges, difplaced thofe who were inclined to leni-
Put ot^eiS fevei'e difpofitions in their room.
He offered rewards to any perfon who could convi&
them of corruption or partiality. He ordered the fvn-
dics of all the towns and figniories to make out a com¬
plete hfl of the diforderly perfons within their dtflri&s
and threatened the Rrapado for the fmallefl omiflion. In
confequence of this edi&, the fyndic of Albino was
icourged in the market place, becaufe he had left his
nephew, an incorrigible libertine, cut of his HR.
He made very fevere laws againfl robbers and affaf-
hns. Adulterers, when difcovered, fuffered death ; and
they who willingly fubmitted to the proflitution of theit
wives, a cuRom then common in Rome, received the
lame punifliment. He was particularly careful of the
purity of the female fex, and never forgave thofe who-
attempted to debauch them.
fLs execution of juflice was as prompt as his edi&s
were rigorous. A Swifs happening to give a Spanifli
gentleman a blow with his halberd, was Rruck by him fo
rudely with a pilgrim’s ftaff that he expired on the fpot.
oixtus informed the governor of Rome that he was to
dme early, and that juftice mufl be executed on the cri-
rninal before he fat down to table. The Spanifli am-
bail actor and four cardinals intreated him not to dif-
grace the gentleman by fuffering him to die on a gib¬
bet, but to order him to be beheaded. “ He fliall be
hanged (replied Sixtus), but I will alleviate his difiwace
y omg 11m tne honour to affift perfonallv at his deaRi ”
He ordered a gibbet to be ere&ed before his own win¬
dows, where he continued fitting during the whole exe¬
cution. He then called to his i'ervants to bring in din-
anno- tlipt- tkp a A — ...i * i i '
Sixtus.
uer, declaring that the a& of juftice which he had juft
leen had increafed his appetite. When he rofe from ta-
/• e, exclaimed, “ God be praifed for the good appe¬
tite with which I have dined !”
Vv hen Sixtus alcended the throne, the whole errkfi
aflical Hate was iefefted with bands of robbers, ‘t
rom their numbers and outrages, were exceedingly for¬
midable oy his prudent and vigorous condu&, how-
bandittT ^ & ^101t Ume extifP^ted the whole of thefe
Nor was the vigour of his condu& lefs confpicuous
,n 115 trarua<ffions with foreign nations. Before he had
SThe j^::d in forae ^
After his acceffidn to the pontificate he fent for his
family to Rome, with exprefs orders that they ihould
appear m a decent and modeft manner. Accordingly
his fifter Camilla came thither, accompanied bv her
daughter and two grandchildren. Some cardinals in
order to pay court to the pope, went out to meet her
and introduced her m a very magnificent drefs. Six¬
tus pretended not to know he;, and afked two or three
tjpaes...
SIX [ 38
Sixtus, times wiio flie was: Upon this one of the cardinals laid,
v—- “ It is your filter, holy father.” “ I have but one filter
(replied Sixtus with a frown), and the is a poor woman
at Le Grotte 3 if you have introduced her in this dif-
guife, I declare I do not know her ; yet I think I would
know her again, if I faw her in the clothes fhe ufed to
wear.'
Her conductors at lalt found it necelfary to carry
her to an inn, and (trip her of her finery. hen Ca¬
milla was introduced a fecond time, Sixtus embraced
her tenderly, and faid, “ Now we know indeed that it
is our filter : nobody lhall make a princefs of you but
ourfetves.” He Itipulated with his filter, that Ihe
Ihould neither alk any favour in matters of government,
nor intercede for criminals, nor interfere in the admini-
itration of jultice j declaring that every requeft of that
kind would meet with a certain refufal. Thefe terms
being agreed to, and punctually obferved, he made the
molt ample provifion not only for Camilla but for his
whole relations.
This great man was alfo an encourager of learning.
He caufed an Italian tranflation of the Bible to be pub-
lithed, which raifed a good deal of difcontent among
the Catholics. When fome cardinals reproached him
for his conduit in this refpect, he replied, “ It r\as pub-
lilhed for the benefit of you cardinals who cannot read
Latin.” .
Sixtus died in 1590, after having reigned little more
than five years. His death was afcribed to poilon, faid
to have been adminiftered by the Spaniards j but the
ftory feems rather improbable.
It was to the indulgence of a difpofition naturally
formed for feverity, that all the defefts of this wonder¬
ful man are to be afcribed. Clemency was a flranger
to his bofom *, his punifhments were often too cruel, and
feemed fometimes to border on revenge. _ Pafquin was
dreffed one morning in a very nafty ftiirt, and being
allied by Marforio why he wore fuch dirty linen ? re¬
plied, that he could get no other, for the pope had made
his watherwoman a princefs, alluding to Camilla, who
had formerly been a laundrefs. Ihe popeordeied ftrift
fearch to be made for the author of this lampoon, and
offered him his life and a thoufand piftoles if he would
difcover himfelf. The author was fimple enough to
make his appearance and claim the reward. “ It is
true (faid the pope) we made fuch a promife, and v. e
lhall keep it 5 your life (hall be fpared, and you lhall re¬
ceive the money prefently : but we have referred, to
curfelves the power of cutting off your hands and .boring
your tongue through, to prevent your being fo witty for
the future.” It is needlefs to add, that the fentence was
immediately executed. This, however, is the only in-
ftance of his refenting the many fevere fatires that were
published again!! him.
But though the conduCI of Sixtus feldom excites
love, it generally commands our efteem, and fometimes
our admiration. He ftrenuoully defended the caufe of
the poor, the widow, and the orphan : he never refufed
audience to the injured, however wretched or forlorn
their appearance was. He never, forgave thofe magi-
Hrates who were capable of partiality or corruption ;
nor fuffered crimes to pafs unpunilhed, whether commit¬
ted by the rich or the poor. He was frugal, tempe¬
rate, fober, and never negleaed to reward the fmallelt
4
2 ] s 1 2
favour which had been conferred on him before his ex¬
altation. - ^ 
When he mounted the throne, the treafury was not
only exhaulted, but in debt : at his death it contained
five millions of gold.
Rome was indebted to him for feveral of her greatef!
embellilhments, particularly the Vatican library : it was
by him, too, that trade was firft introduced into the Ec-
clefiailical State.
SIYA-GHUSH, the caracal of Buffon, an animal of
the cat kind. See Felis, Mammalia Index. . .
SIZAR, or Sizer, in Latin Shaior, an appellation
by which the loweft order of ftudents in the univerfities
of Cambridge and Dublin are diltinguilhed, is derived
from the word Jtxe, which in Cambridge, and probably
in Dublin likewife, has a peculiar meaning. To Jixe,
in the language of the univerfity, is to get any fort of
victuals from the kitchens, which the ftudents may want
in their own rooms, or in addition to their commons in
the hall, and for which they pay the cooks or butchers
at the end of each quarter. A fize of any thing is the
fmalleft quantity of that thing which can be thus
bought : two fizes, or a part of beef, being nearly, equal
to what a young perfon will eat of that dilh to his din¬
ner ; and a fize of ale or beer being equal to half an
Englilh pint.
The fizars are divided into two claffes, viz. fubfiza-
tores or fizars, and fizatores or proper fizars. The
former of thefe are fupplied with commons from the
table of the fellows and fellow commoners *, and in for¬
mer times, when thefe were more fcanty than , they are
now, they were obliged to fupply the deficiency by
fizing, as is fometimes the cafe Hill. The proper fizars
had formerly no commons at all, and were therefore
obliged to fize the whole. In St John’s college they
have now fome commons allowed them for dinner,
from a benefaftion, but they are Hill obliged to fize
their fuppers : in the other colleges they are allowed a
part of the fellow-commons, but mull fize the reft j
and from being thus obliged to fize the whole or part
of their vi&uals, the whole order derived the name of
floors.
In Oxford, the order fimilar to that of fizar is deno¬
minated fervitor, a name evidently derived from the me¬
nial duties which they perform. In both univerfities
thefe orders were formerly diftinguilhed by round caps
and gowns of different materials from thofe of the pen-
fioners or commoners, the order immediately above
them. But about 30 years ago the round cap was en¬
tirely abolilhed in both feminaries. There is ftill, how¬
ever, in Oxford, we believe, a diftindtion in the gowns,
and there is alfo a trilling difference in fome of the
fmall colleges in Cambridge } but in the large!! col¬
leges the drefs of the penfioners and fizars is entirely the
fame. ,
In Oxford, the fervitors are ftill obliged to wait at
table on the fellows and gentlemen-commoners •, but
much to the credit of the univerfity of Cambridge, this
mol! degrading and difgraceful cuftom was entirely abo¬
lilhed about 10 or 12 years ago, and of courfe the fizars
of Cambridge are now on a much more refpedlable loot¬
ing than the fervitors of Oxford.
The fizars are not upon the foundation, and there¬
fore while they continue fizars are not capable of being
eledled
Sixtu.-',
Sizar.
Sizar,
Size.
S 1 Z . J 3
defied fellows; but they may at any time, if they
choofe, become penfioners: and they generally fit for
' fcholardrips immediately before they take their hrlt de¬
gree. If fuccefsful, they are then on the foundation,
and are entitled to become candidates for fellowfiups
when they have got that degree. In the mean time,
while they continue fizars, befides free commons they
enjoy many benefactions, which have been made at dif¬
ferent times, under the name of Jzar’s prater, exhibi¬
tions, &c. and the rate of tuition, the rent of rooms, and
other things of that fort within their refpeftive colleges,
is lefs than to the other orders. But though their edu¬
cation is thus obtained at a lefs expence, they are not
now confidered as a menial order ^ for fizars, penfioner-
fcholars, and even fometimes fellow-commoners, mix to¬
gether with the utmoft cordiality. It is worthy of re¬
mark, that at every period this, order has fupphed the
univerfity with jts molt diftinguifhed officers ; and that
many of the moft illuftrious members of the church,
many of the moll diftinguifiied men in the other, libe¬
ral profeffions, have, when under-graduates, been iizars,
when that order was on a lefs refpeftable footing than it
SIZE the name of an inftrument ufed for finding the
bignefs of fine round pearls. It confifis of thin pieces
o A eaves, about two inches long, and half an inch broad,
fattened together at one end by a rivet. In each m
thefe are round holes drilled of different diameters. I hole
in the firft leaf ferve for meafuring pearls from half a
grain to feven grains •, thofe of the fecond, for peails
from eight grains or two carats to five carats, &c.. •, and
thofe of the third, for pearls from fix carats and a half to
eight carats and a half.
Size, is alfo a fort of paint, varmlh, or glue, uled by
painters, &c.
The ffireds and parings of leather, parchment, or
vellum, being boiled in water and (trained, make fize.
This fubftance is much ufed in many trades.—1 he
manner of ufing fize is to melt fome of it over a gentle
fire j and fcraping as much whiting into it as will juit
colour it, let them be -well incorporated together 5 alter
which you may whiten frames, &c. with it. . After it
dries, melt the fize again, and put more whiting, and
whiten the frames, &c. feven or eight times, letting it
dry between each time : but before it is quite ary, be¬
tween each wattling with fize, you mutt fmooth and wet
it over with a clean brufh-pencil in fair water.
To make gold-fize. Take gum-anime and aiphaltum,
of each one ounce ; minium, litharge of.gold, and am-
b-r of each half an ounce : reduce all into a very nne
powder, and add to them four ounces of linfeed oil, and
eight ounces of drying oil: digeft them over a gentle
fire that does not fame, fo that the mixture may only
fimmer, but not boil; left it ffiould run over and fet the
lioufe on fire, fiir it conftantly with a fuck till all the in¬
gredients are diffolved and incorporated, and do not
leave off ftirring till it becomes thick and ropy ; ader
being fufficiently boiled, let it ft and till it is almoft cold,
and then drain it through a coarfe linen cloth, and keep
it for ufe.—To prepare it for working, put what quan¬
tity you pleafe in a horfe-mufcle (hell, adding as much
oil of turpentine as will diffolve it; and making, it as
thin as the bottom of your feed-lac varniih, hold it over
a candle, and then ftrain it through a linen-rag mtoano
ther lliell; add to thefe as much vermilion as will maue
83 1 s K Ar , ■
it of a darkifh red: if it is too thick for drawing, you
may thin it with fome oil of turpentine. The chief uie
of this fize is for laying on metals.
The be ft gold fize for burnilhing is made as follows :
Take fine bole, what quantity you pleafe grind it fine¬
ly on a piece of marble, then ferape into it a little beet
fuetj grind all well together; after which mix in a.fmall
proportion of parchment-fize with a double proportion of
water, and it is done.
To make filver-fize. Take tobacco-pipe clay m .fine
powder, into which ferape fome black-lead and a little
Genoa foap, and grind them all together with parch¬
ment fize as already dire&ed.
SKATING, an exercife on ice, both graceful and
healthy. Although the ancients were remarkable for
their dexterity in moft of the athletic fports, yet floa¬
ting feems to have been unknown to them. It may
therefore be confidered as a modern invention ; and pro¬
bably it derived its origin in Holland, where it was
praftifed, not only as a graceful and elegant amufement,
but as an expeditious mode of travelling when the lakes
and canals were frozen up during winter. In Holland
lonp* journeys are made upon.fkates with eafe and expe-
dition ; but in general lefs attention is there paid, to
graceful and elegant movements, than to the expedition
and celerity of what is czWtA journey Jkating. It is on¬
ly in thofe countries where it is confidered as an amuie-
ment, that its graceful attitudes and movements can be
ftudied ; and there is no exercife whatever better calcu¬
lated to fet off the human figure to advantage. I be
acquirement of moft exercifes may be attained at an ad¬
vanced period of life ; but to become an expeit fkatci,
it is neceffary to begin the praftice of the art at a very
early age. It is difficult to reduce the art of fkatmg
to a fyftem. It is principally by the imitation of a good
Ikater that a young practitioner can form his own prac¬
tice. The Englifh, though often remarkable for feat,>
of agility upon fkates, are very deficient in gracefulnefs:
which is' partly owing to the conftruaion of the. Ikates.
They are too much curved in the furface. which em¬
braces the ice, confequently they involuntarily bring the
ufers of them round on the outfide upon a quick and
fmall circle ; whereas the Ikater, by ufing Ikates of a
different conftruaion, lefs curved, has the command or
his ftroke, and can enlarge or diminiffi the circle accord¬
ing to his own with and defire. The metropolis of Scot¬
land has produced more inftances of elegant Ikate.rsthan
perhaps any other country whatever ; and the inftitu-
tion of a Heating club about 50 years ago, has contri¬
buted not a little to the improvement of this elegant
amufement. We are indebted for this article to a gen¬
tleman of that club, who has made the pra&ice and im¬
provement of Ikating his particular ftudy ; and as the
nature of our work will not permit the infertion of a full
treatife on Ikating, we {hall prefent our readers with a
few inftruflions.
Thofe who wiffi to be proficients ffiould begin at an
early period of life ; and ffiould firft endeavour to throw'
off the fear which always attends the commencement ot
an apparently hazardous amufement.. They will foon
acquire a facility of moving on the infide : when they
have done this, they muft endeavour to acquire the
movement on the outfide of the Ikates; which is nothing
more than throwing themfelves upon the outer edge or
the Ikate, and making the balance of their body tend
towards
Size,
Skating.
Skating,
Skeleton.
5 K E l 3U } a K U
towards tlvat fide, which will neceffarily enable them to
form a femicircle. In this, much afliftance may be de¬
rived from placing a bag of lead-ihot in the pocket next
to the foot employed in making the outfide ftroke, which
will produce an artificial poife of the body, which after¬
wards will become natural by practice. At the com¬
mencement of the outfide ftroke, the knee of the em¬
ployed limb fhould be a little bended, and gradually
brought to a redlslineal pofition when the ftroke is com¬
pleted. When the praftitioner becomes expert in form¬
ing the femicircle with both feet, he is then to join them
together, and proceed progreflively and alternately with
both feet, w hich will carry him forward with a grace¬
ful movement. Care fhould be taken to ufe very little
mufcular exertion, for the impelling motion ftiould pro¬
ceed from the mechanical impulfe of the body thrown
into fuch a pofition as to regulate the ftroke. At taking
the outfide ftroke, the body ought to be thrown forward
eafily, the unemployed limb kept in a direft line with
the body, and the face and eyes directly looking for¬
ward : the unemployed foot ought to be ftretched to¬
wards the ice, wuth the toes in a direfl line w’ith the leg.
In the time of making the curve, the body muft be gra¬
dually, and almoft imperceptibly, raifed, and the urifem-
ployed limb brought in the fame manner forward j fo
that, at finilliing the curve, the body will bend a fmall
degree backward, and the unemployed foot will be
about twro inches belore the other, ready to embrace the
ice and form a correfpondent curve. The mufcular
movement of the whole body muft correfpond with the
movement of the fkate, and fhould be regulated fo as
to be almoft imperceptible to the fpedlators. Particular
attention fhould be paid in carrying round the head and
eyes with a regular and imperceptible motion } for no¬
thing fo much diminifhes the grace and elegance of fka-
ting as hidden jerks and exertions, which are too fre¬
quently ufed by the generality of fkaters. The manage¬
ment of the arms likewife deferves attention. There is
no moae of difpofing of them more gracefully in fkating
outfide, than folding the hands into each other, or ufing
a muff.
I here are various feats of activity and manoeuvres
ufed upon fkates 5 but they are fo various that wtc can¬
not pretend to detail them. Moving on the outfide is
the primary object for a fkater to attain ; and when he
becomes an adept in that, he will eafily acquire a fa¬
cility in executing other branches of the art. There
are few exercifes but will afford him hints of elegant
and graceful attitudes. For example, nothing can be
more beautiful than the attitude of drawing "the bow
and arrow wdiilft the fkater is making a large circle on
the outfide : the manual exercife and military falutes
have likewife a pretty effect when ufed by an expert
fkatcr.
SKELETON, in Anatomy, the dried bones of any
animal joined together by wires, or by the natural liga¬
ment dried, in fuch a manner as to fhow their pofition
when the creature was alive.
We have, in the Philofophical Tranfaflions, an ac¬
count of a human fkeleton, all the bones of which were
fo united, as to make but one articulation from the back
to the os facrum, and downwards a little way. On faw-
ing fome of them, where they were unnaturally joined,
they were found not to cohere throughout their whole
iubftance, but only about a fixth of an inch deep all
3
round. The figure of the trunk wras crooked, the fpinae
making the convex, and the inlide of the vertebrse the
concave part of the fegment. The whole had been
found in a charnel-h«ufe, and W'as of the fize of a full
grown perfon.
SKIDS, or Skeeds, in fea-language, are long com-
pafting pieces of timber, notched below fo as to fit clofe-
ly upon the wales, extending from the main-wale t®
the top of the fide, and retained in this pofition by
bolts or fpike-nails. They aie intended for preferring
the planks of the fide, when any heavy body is hoifted
or lowered.
SKIE, Isle of. See Skye.
SKIFF, a fmall boat refembling a yawl, ufually em¬
ployed for pafting rivers.
SKIMMER, Black. See Rhykchops, Ornitho¬
logy Index.
SKIMMIA, a genus of plants belonging to the te-
trandria clafs; and in the natural method ranking under
the 40th order, Perfonatee. See Botany Index.
SKIN, in Anatomy, the general covering of the body
of any animal. See Anatomy, N° 74.
Skin, in Commerce, is particularly ufed for the mem¬
brane dripped off the animal to be prepared by the tan¬
ner, fkinner, parchment-maker, &c. and converted into
leather, &c. S‘ee Tanning.
SKINNER, Stephen, an Engliih antiquarian, was
born in 1622. He travelled, and ftudied in feveral fo¬
reign univerfities during the civil wars; and in 1654,
returned and fettled at Lincoln, where he praftifed phy-
fic with fuccefs until the year 1667, when he died of a
malignant fever. His works were collefted in folio in
1671, by Mr Flenfhaw, under the title of Etymokgicort
Linyua1 jdnglicance, &c.
SKIPPER, or Saury, a fpccies of fifh. See Esox*
Ichthyology Index.
SKIRMISH, in Whr, a flight engagement between
fmall parties, without any regular order j and is there¬
fore eafily diftinguifired from a battle, which is a general
engagement between twx) armies continued for feme,
time.
SKIRMISH Bay, the name given by Lieutenant
Broughton to a bay in an iftand which was difeovered
by him in latitude 430 48' fouth, and in longitude 183°
eaft. The Chatham armed tender w'orked up into the
bay, and came to anchor about a mile from the fhore.
When the captain and fome of the people landed, they
found the natives fo extremely Inhofpitable, that felf-pre-
feivation made it neceffary to fire upon them. The land
is of confiderable magnitude, whether ifland or conti¬
nent, and what they faw of it extended nearly 40 miles
from eaft to weft, and the appearance of the country
they regarded as very promifing. The natives referable
thofe of New Zealand, from which they are diftant
about 100 leagues, but their fkins were deftitute of any
marks, and they feemed to be cleanly in their perfons.
Their drefles were of feal fkin, while fome had fine mats
faftened round the waift. Mr Broughton fays, “ on our
firft landing, their furprife and exclamations can hardly
be imagined 5 they pointed to the fun, and then to us,
as if to afk whether we had come from thence ?” The
arms they made ufc of were clubs, fpears, and a fmall
weapon refembling the patoo of New Zealand.
SKULL, in Anatomy, the bony cafe in which J^he
brain is enclofed. See Anatomy, N° ii, &c.
SK&LJb*
SKY [ 385 ] SKY
Skull
Skve-
St/itijlical
Account of
Scotland,
rol. xvi.
f. 140.
SKVLL-Caf. S:e Scutellaria, Botany lufex.
SKY, the blue expanfe of air or atmofphere. For
the reafon of its blue colour and concave figure, fee
Oftics, N° 223.
SKYrE, one of the greateft of the Weflern iflands of
Scotland, fo called from Skianack, which in the Erfe
dialefl fignihes winged, becaufe the two promontories of
Valernefs and Toternifh, by which it is bounded on the
north-weft and north-eaft, are fuppofed to refemble
wings. The ifland lies between the (hire of Rofs and
the weftern part of Lewis. According to the computa¬
tion of Mr Pennant, Dr Johnfon, and Dr Campbell, it
is 60 miles in length, and nearly the fame in width
where broadeft •, according to others it is 50 miles in
length, and in forne places 30 broad. The ifland of
Skye was formerly divided between two proprietors-, the
fouthern part belonged to the laird of Macleod, faid to
be lineally defcended from Leod fon to the black prince
of Man, but part of this divifion has fallen into other
hands : the northern diitrift is the property of Lord
Macdonald, whofe anceftor was Donald, king or lord of
the ifles, and chief of the numerous clan of Macdonalds,
who are counted the moft warlike of all the Highlanders.
Skye is part of the {hire of Invernefs, and formerly be¬
longed to the diocefe of the Ifles: on the fouth it is part¬
ed from the main land by a channel three leagues in
breadth } though, at the ferry of Glenelg, it is fo nar¬
row- that a man may be heard calling for the boat from
one fide to the other. Skye is w-ell provided with a va¬
riety of excellent bays and harbours.
The face of the country is roughened with moun¬
tains, fome of which are fo high as to be covered with
fnow on the top at midfummer ; in general, their fides
are clothed with heath and grafs, which afford good
pafturage for ftieep and black cattle. Between the
mountains there are fome fertile valleys, and the greater
part of the land tow-ards the fea-coaft is plain and
arable. The ifland is wTell watered with a great num¬
ber of rivers, above 30 of which afford falmon and
fbme of them produce black mufcles in which pearls
are bred, particularly the rivers Kilmartin and Ord :
Martin w-as affured by the proprietor of the former,
that a pearl hath been found in it valued at 2cl. Ster¬
ling. Here is alfo a confiderable number of freih-
water lakes well ftored with trout and eels. The largeft
of thefe lakes takes its denomination from St Colum-
ba, to whom is dedicated a chapel that ftands upon a
fmall ifle in the middle of the lake. Skye Hkewife af¬
fords feveral cataradls, that roar down the rocks with
great impetuofity. That the ifland has been formerly
covered with w:oods, appears from the large trunks of
fir and other trees daily dug out of the bogs and peat-
marfhes in every part of the country.
From the height of the hills, and proximity of the
fea, the air feldom continues long of the fame tempera¬
ture *, fometimes it is dry, oftener moift, and in the lat¬
ter end of winter and beginning of fpring cold and pier¬
cing 3 at an average, three days in twelve throughout
the year fcarcely free from rain, far lefs from clouds.
Thefe, attrafted by the hills, fometimes break in ufeful
and refrefhing fhowers 3 at other times fuddenly burft-
ing, pour down their contents wuth tremendous noife,
in impetuous torrents that deluge the plains below, and
render the fmalleft rivulet impaffable 3 which, together
with the ftormv winds fo common in this country in
Vol. XIX. Part I.
the months of Auguft and September, frequently blaft
the hopes, and difappoint the expeftations, of the huf-
bandman. Snow has been often known to lie on the
ground from three to feven weeks 3 and on the higheft
hills, even in the middle of June, fome fpots of it are
to be feen. To this various temperature of the air,
and uncertainty of weather, the fevers and agues, head-
achs, rheumatilms, colds, and dyfenteries, which are the
prevailing diftempers, may be afcribed. That it is far,
however, from being unwholefome, is fufficiently evin¬
ced by experience 3 for the inhabitants are, in gene¬
ral, as ftrong and healthy, and arrive at as advanced an
age, as thofe who live in milder climates, and under
a ferener Iky. The gout is fcarcely known in this
ifland.
The foil is generally black, though it likewife affords
clay of different colours 3 fuch as white, red, and blue,
and in fome places fuller’s earth. It is, however, much
lefs adapted for agriculture than for pafture, and fel¬
dom, unlefs, in very good years, fupplies itfelf with a fuf-
ficiency of provifions. Yet, though the foil is not very
fertile or rich, it might with proper management be
made to produce more plentiful crops. But the gene¬
rality of the farmers are fo prejudiced in favour of old
cuftoms, and indeed fo little inclined to induftry, that
they will not eafily be prevailed on to change them
for better 3 efpecially if the alteration or amendment
propofed be attended with expence. Therefore, with
refpecl to improvements in agriculture, they are ftill
much in the fame ftate as they were 20 or 30 years
ago. Ploughs, on a new and improved model, that in
comparifon to the advantages derived from them might
be had at a moderate expence, have lately been intro¬
duced into feveral diftrifts around, where their good ef-
fefts are manifeft in improving the crops and diminifh-
ing the labour of man and beaft 3 but the laird of Raa-
fay and one other gentleman are the only perfons in
Portree that have ufed them. The cafcroitn, a crooked
kind of fpade, is almoft the only inftrument for labouring
the ground ufed among the ordinary clafs of tenants.
The average crops of corn are 8000 bolls.
When Mr Knox vifited this ifland in 1786, the
number of inhabitants amounted to 15,000 : but be¬
tween 1790-98, according to the Statiftical Hiftory of
Scotland, the population is only 14,470.
Various minerals are found in Skye, but none have
been wrought to any advantage. Near the village of
Sartle, the natives find black and white marcafites, and
variegated pebbles. The Applefglen, in the neighbour¬
hood of Lochfallart, produces beautiful agates of dif¬
ferent colours : ftones of a purple hue are, after great
rains, found in the rivulets : cryftal, of different colours
and forms, abounds in feveral parts of the ifknd, as well
as black and white marble, free-ftone, lime-ftone, and
talc : fmall red and white coral is found on the fouthem
and weftern coafts in great abundance. The fuel con-
fifts chiefly of peat and turf, which are impregnated
with iron ore 3 and coal has been difeovered in feveral
diftri&s 3 but it does not appear to be worth work*
InS'
The wild birds of all forts moft common in the coun¬
try, are, folan geefe, gulls, cormorants, cranes, wild
geefe, and wild ducks; eagles, crows, ravens, rooks, cuc¬
koos, rails, woodcocks, moor-fowl, partridges, plover,
wild pigeons, and blackbirds, owls, hawks, fnipes, and
3 G a
SKY [ 386 ] SLA
In mild feafons, the cuckoo men are in general very cleanly, and fo excefiively fond
Skye. a variety of fmall birds
“ v**—' and rail appear in the latter end of April j the former
dilappears always before the end of June ; the latter
lometimes not till September. The woodcock comes
in October, and frequently remains till March. The
tame forts of fowl are geefe, ducks, turkeys, cocks, pul¬
lets, and tame pigeons.
The black cattle are here expofed to all the rigours
of the levere winter, without any other provender than
the tops of the heath and the alga marina j fo that they
appear like mere Ikeletons in the fpring} though, as
the grafs grows up, they foon become plump and juicy,
the beef being fweet, tender, and finely interlarded.—
The amphibious animals are feals and otters. Among
the reptiles may be reckoned vipers, afps, frogs, toads, and
three different kinds of ferpents •, the firfl fpotted black
and white, and very poifonous j the fecond yellow,
with brown fpots •, and the third of a brown colour, the
fmalleft and lead; poifonous.
Whales, and cairbans or fun-fifh, come in fometimes
to the founds after their prey, but are rarely purfued
with any fuccefs. The fiihes commonly caught on the
coafi; are herrings, ling, cod, Ikate, haddock, mackerel,
lythe, fye, and dog-fiih. The average price of ling at
home is 13!. 13s. per ton j when fold, one by one, if
freth, the price is from 3d. to 5d. •, if cured, from 3d.
to yd. The barrel of herrings feldom fells under 19s.
which is owing to the great difficulty of procuring fait,
even fometimes at any price ; and the fame caufe pre¬
vents many from taking more than are fufficient for
their own ufe.
The kyle of Scalpe teems with oyfters, in fuch a man¬
ner, that after fome fpring-tides, 20 horfe-loads of them
are left upon the fands. Near the village of Bernffill,
the beach yields mufcles fufficient to maintain 60 per-
fons per day •, this providential fupply helps to fupport
many poor families in times of fcarcity.
The people are ftrong, robuft, healthy, and prolific.
They generally profefs the Proteftant religion •, are ho¬
ned:, brave, innocent, and hofpitable. They fpeak the
language, wear the habit, and obferve the cuftoms that
are common to all the Hebrides. The meconium in
new-born infants is purged away with freffi butter : the
children are bathed every morning and evening in wa¬
ter, and grow up fo ftrong, that a child of 10 months
is able to walk alone : they never wear ffioes or ftock-
ings before the age of eight or ten, and night-caps are
hardly known $ they keep their feet always wret •, they
lie on beds of ftraw or heath, which laft is an excellent
reftorative : they are quick of apprehenfion, ingenious,
and very much addicted to mufic and poetry. They
eat heartily of fiffi; but feldom regale themfelves with
fleffi-meat: their ordinary food confifts of butter, cheefe,
milk, potatoes, colewort, brochan, and a difti called
00/7, which indeed is no other than the froth of boiled
milk or wffiey raifed with a ftick like that ufed in making
chocolate.
A fort of coarfe woollen cloth called c/ort, or cad-
does, the manufacture of their wives, made into ffiort
jackets and troufers, is the common drefs of the men.
The philibeg is rarely worn, except in fummer and on
Sundays •, on which days, and fome other occafions, thofe
in better circumftances appear in tartans, a bonnet, and
fhort hofe, and fome in a hat, ffiort coat, waiftcoat, and
breeches, of Scotch or Engliffi manufacture. The wo-
Skve
Slavery.
of drefs, that many maid-fervants are often known to lay
out their whole wages that way. , 
There are twro fairs held annually at Portree, to ^
which almoft every part of Sky fends cattle. The firlt
is held in the end of May, and the fecond in the end of
July. The fair commonly continues from Wednefday
till the Saturday following. The commodities which
are fold in thefe are horfes, cows, ftieep, goats, hides,
butter, cheefe, fifti, and wool. The cattle fold in thele
fairs fwim over to the main land through a mile or half
a mile of fea. Thoufands of thefe are yearly exported,
at from 2I. to 3I. each. Many of them are driven to
England, where they are fatted for the market, and
counted delicious eating.
In Skye appear many ruins of Daniffi forts, watch-
towers, beacons, temples, and fepulchral monuments.
All the forts are known by the term Dun; fuch as
Dun-Skudborg, Dun-Derig, Dun-Skerinefs, Dun-Da-
vid, &c.
SKT-Colour. To give this colour to glafs, fet in the
furnace a pot of pure metal of fritt from rochetta or ba¬
rilla, but the rochetta fritt does belt j as foon as the
metal is well purified, take for a pot of twenty pounds
of metal fix ounces of brafs calcined by itfelf; put it by
degrees at two or three times into the metal, ftirring
and mixing it well every time, and diligently fkimming
the metal with a ladle : at the end of two hours the
whole will be well mixed, and a proof may be taken j
if the colour be found right, let the whole fland 24
hours longer in the furnace, and it will then be fit to
work, and will prove of a moft beautiful fky colour.
SLAB, an outfide fappy plank or board fawed off
from the fides of a timber-tree. The word is alfo ufed
for a flat piece of marble.
SLAB-Line, in fea-language, a fmall cord palling up
behind a ffiip’s main-fail, or fore-fail, and being reeved
through a block attached to the lower part of the yard,
is thence tvanfmitted in two branches to the foot of the
fail, to which it is faftened. It is ufed to trufs up the
fail as occafion requires, and more particularly for the
convenience of the pilot or fteerfman, that they may
look forward beneath it as the ffiip advances.
SLACK-water, in fea-language, denotes the inter¬
val between the flux and reflux of the tide, or between
the laft of the ebb and the firfl: of the flood, during
which the current is interrupted, and the water appa¬
rently remains in a ftate of reft.
SLACKEN, in Metallurgy, a term ufed by miners
to exprefs a fpongy and femivitrified fubftance which is
mixed with the ores of metals, to prevent their fufion.
It is the fcoria or feum feparated from the furface of
the former fufions of metals. To this is frequently
added limeftone, and fometimes a kind of coarfe iron-ore,
in the running of the poorer gold ores.
SLATE, a ftone of a compaft texture and laminated
ftru&ure, fplitting into fine plates, fome varieties of
which are employed for covering houfes. See Clay-Slate,
under Mineralogy, p. 185. See alfo Geology.
SLAVE. See Slavery. t
SLAVERY is a word, of which though generallyslavery ^
underftood, it is not eafy to give a proper definition, fined.
An excellent moral writer has defined it to be “ an ob¬
ligation to labour for the benefit of the mafter, without
the contraft or confent of the fervant.” But may not he
be
SLA [ 3B7 ] SLA
Slavery, be properly called a Have wbo has given up his freedom to
'"—"V—^ difcharge a debt which he could not otherwife pay, or
who has thrown it away at a game of hazard ? In ma¬
ny nations, debts have been legally difcharged in this
manner 5 and in fome favage tribes, fuch is the univerfal
ardour for gaming, that it is no uncommon thing for a
man, after having loft at play all his other property, to
ftake, on a Angle throw of dice, himfelf, his wife,, and
his children (a). That perfons who have thus loft their
liberty are flaves, will hardly be denied ; and furely
the infatuated gamefter is a Have by his own contraft.
The debtor, too, if he was aware of the law, and con- *
tradled debts larger than he could reafonably expeft to
be able to pay, may juftly be^confidered as having come
under an obligation to labour for the benefit of a mailer
’with his own confent; for every man is anfwerable for
all the known confequences of his voluntary aftions.
This definition of llavery feems to be defe£live as well
as inaccurate. A man may be under an obligation to
labour through life for the benefit of a mafter, and yet
that mafter have no right to difpofe of him by fale, or
in any other way to make him the property of a third
perfon ; but the word Jlave, as ufed among us, 'always
denotes a perfon who may be bought and fold like a
beaft in the market (b). In its original fenfe, indeed,
it was of the fame import with noble, illujirious; but
vaft numbers of the people among whom it had that
fignification being, in the decline of the Roman empire,
fold by their countrymen to the Venetians, and by them
difperfed over all Europe, the word Jlave came to de¬
note a perfon in the loweft ftate of lervitude, who was
confidered as the abfolute property of his mafter. See
Philology, N° 220.
* As nothing can be more evident than that all men
of rank inCS ^ave» hy the law of nature, an equal right to life, liber-
evitable. ty, and the produce of their own labour (fee Right,
N° 5.), it is not eafy to conceive what can have firft
led one part of them to imagine that they had a right
to enllave another. Inequalities of rank are indeed in¬
evitable in civil fociety ; and from them refults that fer-
vitude which is founded in contraft, and is of tempo¬
rary duration. (See Moral Philosophy, N° 141.) He
who has much property has many things to attend to,
and muft be difpofed to hire perfons to aflift and ferve
him $ while thole who have little or no property muft
be equally willing to be hired for that purpofe. And
if the mafter be kind, and the fervant faithful, they will
both be happier in this connexion than they could have
been out of it. But from a ftate of fervitude, wdiere the
Have is at the abfolute difpofal of his mafter in all things,
and may be transferred without his own confent from
one proprietor to another, like an ox or an afs, happinefs Slavery,
nuuft be for ever banilhed. How then came a traffic fo -""v
unnatural and unjuft as that of Haves to be originally in¬
troduced into the world ?
The common anfwer to this queftion is, that it took
its rife among favages, who, in their frequent wars with
each other, either maflacred their captives in cold blood,
or condemned them to perpetual flavery. In fupport of
this opinion we have heard it obferved, that the Latin
word fervus, which fignifies not a hired fervant, but a
Jlave, is derived from fervare, “ to preferve j” and that
fuch men were called fervi, becaufe they were captives,
whofe lives were preferved on the condition of their be¬
coming the property of the vi£for. 3
That flavery had its origin from war, we think ex- Origin of
tremely probable (c), nor are we inclined to controvertflavery'
this etymology of the rVord fervns ; but the traffic in
men prevailed almoft univerially long before the Latin
language or Roman name was heard of; and there is
no good evidence that it began among favages. The
wmrd in the Old Teftament, which in our verfion
is rendered fervant, fignifies literally a fiave, either born
in the family or bought with money, in contradiftinc-
tion to vauq which denotes a hired fervant: and as Noah 4
makes ufe of the word nsp in the curfe which he de-*>rior t0 tte
nounces upon Ham and Canaan immediately after the e u^e*
deluge, it would appear that flavery had its origin be¬
fore that event. If fo, there can be little doubt but
that it began among thofe violent perfons whom our
tranflators have called giants *, though the original word * Gen. vu
osbs3 literally fignifies Thofe wretch-4*
es feem firft to have leized upon women, whom they
forcibly compelled to minifter to their pleafhres j and
from this kind of violence the progrefs was natural to
that by which they enflaved their weaker brethren among
the men, obliging them to labour for their benefit, with¬
out allowing them fee or reward. ^
After the deluge the firft dealer in flaves feems to Nimrod en«
have been Nimrod. “ He began,” wTe are told, “ to be^ave.^ ^1S
a mighty one in the earth, and was a mighty hunter caPuve5‘
before the Lord.” He could not, however, be the firft
hunter of wild beafts •, for that fpecies of hunting muft
have been praftifed from the beginning 5 nor is it pro¬
bable that his dexterity in the chafe, which was then
the univerfal employment, could have been fo far fu-
perior to that of all his contemporaries, as to entitle him
to the appellation of the “ the mighty hunter before the
Lord.” Hence moft commentators have concluded,
that he wTas a hunter of men ; an opinion which they
think receives fome countenance from the import of his
name, the word Nimrod fignifying a rebel. Whatever
3 C 2 be
(a) Aleam (quod mirere) fobrii inter feria exercent, tanta lucrandi perdendive temeritate, ut cum omnia defe-
eerunt, extremo ae noviflimo jaftu de libertate et corpore contendant. Vicftus voluntariam fervitutem adit j quam-
vis junior, quamvis robuftior, alligari fe ac venire patitur.— Tacitus de Mor. Ger/n.
The favages of North America are equally addi&ed to gaming wfith the ancient Germans, and the negroes on
the Slave Coaft of Guinea perhaps ftill more.
(b) The Roman orator’s definition of Jlavery, Farad. V. is as accurate as any that we have feen. “ Servitus eft
obedientia frafti animi et abjecli et arbitrio carentis fuo $” whether the unhappy perfon fell into that ftate with or
without his own contraft or confent.
(c) In the article Society, the reader will find another-account of the origin of flavery, which we think like-
wife probable, though we have not transferred it to this place; as it would, in our opinion, be wrong to give to
one writer wffiat we know to belong to another. It may be proper, hosvever, to obferve here, that between the two
articles there is no contradi&ton, as barbarous wars were certainly one fource of flavery.
SLA [ 388 ] SLA
Slavery, be in this, there can be little doubt but that he became
v—*", a mighty one by violence } for being the fixth fon of
his father, and apparently much younger than the other
five, it is not likely that his inheritance exceeded theirs
either in extent or in population. He enlarged it, how¬
ever, by conqueil j for it appears from Scripture, that
he invaded the territories of Aihur the fon of Shem,
who had fettled in Shinar ; and obliging him to remove
into Affyria, he feized upon Babylcn, and made it the
capital of the firft kingdom in the world. As he had
great projefts in view, it feems to be in a high degree
probable that he made bond-fervants of the captives
whom he took in his wars, and employed them in build¬
ing or repairing the metropolis of his kingdom } and
hence we think is to be dated the origin of poftdiluvian
6 fiavery.
Slavery in That it began thus early can hardly be queftioned j
the days of for we know that it prevailed univerfally in the age of
Abraham. Abraham, who was born within feventy years after the
death of Nimrod. That patriarch had three hundred
and eighteen fervants or flaves, born in his own houfe,
and trained to arms, with whom he purfued and con¬
quered the four kings who had taken captive his bro-
j- Gen. xiv. t]lert3 fon Ancl it appears from the converfation
which took place between him and the king of Sodom
after the battle, that both believed the conqueror had
a right to confider his prifoners as part of his fpoil.
“ Give me (fays the king) the perfons, and take the
goods to thyfelf.” It is indeed evident from numberlefs
paffages of fcripture, that the dorneitics whom our tranf-
lators call fervants were in thofe days univerfally confi-
dered as the moll valuable part of their mailer’s proper¬
ty, and claffed with his flocks and herds. Thus when
the facred hiftcrian defcribes the wealth of Abraham, he
fays, that “ he had Iheep and oxen, and he affes, and men-
fervants, and maid fervants, and Ihe-affes, and camels."’
And when Abimelech wilhed to make feme reparation
to the patriarch for the unintended i: jury that he had
done him, “ he took Iheep and oxen, and men-fervants,
and w7omen-fervants, and gave them unto Abraham, and
reftored to him Sarah his wife.” The riches and power
of Ifaac and Jacob are efiimated in the very fame man¬
ner. Of the former it is faid, that “ the man waxed
great, and went forward and grew, until he became very
great : for he had poffeflion of flocks, and poffeflion of
herds, and great ftore of fervants, n-pm of flaves j and
the Philiftines envied him.” The latter, we are told,
“ increafed exceedingly, and had much cattle, and maid-
t Gen. xii. fervants, and men-fervants, and camels, and affes |.”
14. That the pra6lice of buying and felling fervants thus
xx'v- 35 early begun among the patriarchs defeended to their
a^vi. 13. is known to every attentive reader of the Bi¬
ble. It was exprelsly authorifed by the Jewifh law, in Slavery,
which are many directions how Inch fervants were to be
treated. They were to be bought only of the heathen ; ^utJ)rifeci
for if an Ifraelite grew poor and fold himfelf either tO!,y the Wo-
difeharge a debt, or to procure the means of fubfiftence,faic law.
he was to be treated not as a Have -pit, but as a hired
fervant TOtv, and reilored to freedom at the year of Ju¬
bilee. “ Both thy bond-men and thy bond maids (fays
Mofes) (ball be of the heathen that are round about you :
of them (hall ye buy bond-men and bond maids. And
ye (hall take them as an inheritance for your children
after you, to inherit them for a poffeflion ; they fhall be
your bond-men for ever ||.” Unlimited as the power j Lev> xxv>
thus given to the Hebrews over their bond-lervants of 39,40, 44,
heathen extraction appsars to have been, they were llri<ff-46*
ly prohibited from acquiring fuch property by any other
means than fair purchafe : “ he that Jiealeth a man and
felleth him,” laid their great lawgiver, “ lhall furely be
put to death §.” § Lev. xxk
Whillt flavery, in a mild form, was permitted among l6- ^
the people of God, a much wurfe kind of it prevailed cr3rc;i(j over
among the heathen nations of antiquity. With other t},e whole
abominable cultoms, the traffic in men quickly fpread world,
from Chaldea into Egypt, Arabia, and over all the call,
and by degrees found its way into every known region
under heaven (r>).
Of this hateful comraerce we fhall not attempt to
trace the progrefs through every age and country, but
fhall content ourfelves with taking a tranfient view of it
among the Greeks and Romans, and a few other na¬
tions, in whofe cuftoms and manners our readers mull
be interelled. ^
One can hardly read a book of the Iliad or OJyffey, slavery a-
without perceiving that, in the age of Homer, all prifoners rr.ong tl>e
of war were liable to be treated as flaves, and compelled, Greeks ai,4
without regard to their rank, lex, or years, to labour
for their mafters in oflices of the vileft drudgery. So
univerfally was this cruel treatment of captives admitted
to be the right of the vidbor, that the poet introduces
Hedtor in the very adl of taking a tender and perhaps
lalt farewell of his wife, when it was furely his bufmefs
to afford her every confolation in his power, telling her,
as a thing of courfe which could not be concealed, that,
on the conquefl of Troy, fhe would be compelled
To bear the vidlor’s hard commands, or bring
The weight of water from Hyperia’s fpring (e).
Pofe.
At that early period, the Phoenicians, and probably the
Greeks themfelves, had fuch an ellablifhed commerce in
flaves, that, not fatisfied with reducing to bondage their
prifoners of war, they fcrupled not to kidnap in.vold
blood
(d) If credit be due to a late account of China, the people of that vafl empire have never made merchandife of
men or women. The exception, however, is fo Angular, that we ffiould be glad to fee it better authenticated ; for it
is apparent from works of the moll undoubted credit, that over all the other eaflern countries with which we are
acquainted flavery has prevailed from time immemorial, and that fome of the Indian nations make long journeys
into Africa for the foie purpofe of buying llaves.
(e) In thofe early times drawing water was the office of the meanefl. flaves. This appears from Jofhua’s curfe
upon the Gibeonites who had deceived him “ Now therefore ye are curled, and there fhall none of you be freed
from being bond-men, and hewers of -wood, and drawers of water, for the houfe of my God.” lo this flate of
bondage Homer m; kes H(6lor fay, that Andromache would neceJJanhj be brought upon the deflrudticn of Iroy j
y iTTiKUTtr xvxyKit>——J/tad, lib. vi».
Slavery.
* yujliit.
lib. ui.
cap. 4*
f y^/lin et
et Ar rian
Beattie's
Moral
Science,
vuLii.
10
Romans.
S L A [ 3S9 ] SLA
blood pcrfons who had never kindled their refentment,
in order to fupply their foieign markets. In the 14th
book of the Odyffey, Ulyffes reprefents himlelf as ha¬
ving narrowly efcaped a lhare of this kind laid for him
by a faife Phoenician, who had doomed the hero to Li¬
byan flavery : and as the whole narrative, in which this
circumflance is told, is an artful fiction, intended to
have tiie appearance of truth to an Ithacan peafant, the
practice of kidnapping Haves could not then have ap¬
peared incredible to any inhabitant of that iiland.i
Such were the manners of the Greeks in the heroic
age ; nor were they much improved in this refped at
periods of greater refinement. Philip of Macedon ha¬
ving conquered the Thebans, not only fold his captives,
but even took money for permitting the dead to be bu¬
ried * j and Alexander, who had more generofity than
Philip, afterwards razed the city of Thebes, and fold
the inhabitants, men, women, and children, for fiaves
This cruel treatment of a brave people may indeed be
fuppofed to have proceeded, in the firft initance, from
the avarice of the conqueror; and in the fecond, from the
momentary refentment of a man who was lavage and gene¬
rous by turns, and who had no command of his paffions.
We lhall not pofitively affign it to other caufes ; but
from the manner in which the Spartans behaved to their
fia ves, there is little reafon to imagine that had they re¬
ceived from the Thebans the fame provocation with A-
lexander, they would have treated their captives with
greater lenity. “ At Sparta (fays a humane and ele¬
gant writer) Haves were treated with a degree of ri¬
gour that is hardly conceivable 5 although to them, as
their hufbandmen and artificers, their proud and idle
mailers were indebted for all the neceflaries of life. The
Lacedemonian youth, trained up in the pra£lice of de¬
ceiving and butchering thofe poor men, were from time
to time let loofe upon them, in order to Hiow their pro¬
ficiency in ftratagem and maffacre. And once, without
any provocation, and merely for their own amufement,
we are told that they murdered three thoufand in one
night, not only with the connivance of law, but by its a-
Vowed permifiiun. Such, in promoting the happinefs
of one part of fociety and the virtue of another, are the
effects of fiavery.'”
It has been faid, that in Athens and Rome Haves
Were better treated than in Sparta : but in the former
city their treatment cannot have been good, or their
lives comfortable, when the Athenians relilhed that tra¬
gedy of Euripides in which Hecuba, the wife of Priam,
is introduced as lamenting that Are was chained like a
dog at Agamemnon’s gate ? Of the ellimation in which
Haves were held in Rome, vre may form a tolerable no¬
tion from the well-known faff, that one of thofe unhap¬
py beings was often chained at the gate of a great man’s Slavery,
houfe, to give admittance to the guefts invited to a
fealtIn the early periods of the commonwealth it * Karnes’s
was cullomary, in certain facred Ihews exhibited on fo- Sketches.
lemn occafions, to drag through the circus a Have, who
had been fcourged to death holding in his hand a fork
in the form of a gibbet f. But we need not multiply f Cicero d;
proofs of the cruehy of the Romans to their Haves. If-Dw. lib. L
the inhuman combats of the gladiators (fee Gladia-cal5, z6'
TORS) admit of any apology on account of the martial
fpirit with which they were thought to infpire the fpec-
tators, the condudl of Vedius Pollio mull have proceed¬
ed from the rnoft wanton and brutal cruelty. This man,
who llouriflied not in the earlieft periods of the republic,
when the Romans were little better than a favage ban¬
ditti, but in the poliHied age of Augultus, frequently
threw fuch Haves as gave him the Highteft offence into
his fifhponds to fatten his lampreys ; and yet he was fuf-
fered to die in peace ! The emperor, indeed, upon co¬
ming to the knowledge of his cruelty, ordered his lam¬
preys to be dellroyed, and his ponds to be filled up ;
but we do not recolledl that any oiher punhhment was
infii&ed on the favage mafter. Till the reign of the
fame emperor the depofitions of Haves were never ad¬
mitted in the courts of judicature $ and then they were
received only when perlons were acculed of trealonable
praftices. II:
The origin of Havery in Rome was the fame as in Origin of
every other country. Prifoners of war were of courfe R°ma;i
reduced to that Hate, as if they had been criminals. f
The didlator Camillus, one of the molt acccmplifhed ge¬
nerals of the republic, fold his Hetrurian captives to pay
the Roman ladies for the jewels which they had prefent-
ed to Apollo. Fabius, whofe cautious conduct faved
his country when Hannibal was victorious in Italy, hav¬
ing fubdued Tarentum, reduced 30,000 of the citizens
to flavery, and lold them to the higheft bidder. Corio-
lanus, when driven from Rome, and fighting for the
Volfci, fcrupled not to make Haves of his own country¬
menand Julius Caefar, among whofe faults wanton-
cruelty has never been reckoned, fold at one time fifty-
three thoufand captives for Haves. Nor did the Haves
in Rome confifl only of foreigners taken in war. By
one of the laws of the twelve tables, creditors were em¬
powered to feize their infolvent debtors, and keep them
in their houfes till, by their fervices or labour, they had.
difeharged the fum they owed : and in the beginning of
the commonwealth they weie authorifed to fell fuch
debtors, and even to put them to death (f). The chil¬
dren of Haves weie the property not of the common¬
wealth, or of their own parents, but of their mailers ;
and thus was flavery perpetuated in the families of fuch
unhappy
(f) After a certain number of citations, the laiv granted to the debtor thirty days of grace to raife the fum for-
which he w'as accountable. The words of the law are : “ /Eris confeffi, rebufque jure judicath, triginti dies jullL
funto. Pod dein manum endojacito.—Vincito aut nervo, aut compedibus.” When the debt is confeffed, and
the trial palled, let there be thirty days of forbearance ; afterwards lay hands on him •, bind him either with a cord-
or fetters.” After the thirty days were expired, if the debtor had not difeharged the debt, he w7as led to the prae¬
tor, who delivered him over to the mercy of his creditors •. thefe bound him and kept him in chains for the fpace
of fixty days. Afterwards, for three marked-days fucceflrvely, the debtor was brought to the tribunal of the pise-
tor ; then a public crier proclaimed in the forum the debt for which the prifoner was detained. It often happened,,
that rich perfons redeemed the prifoner by paying his debts ; but if nobody appeared in behalf of the debtor after
the third market-day, the creditor had a right to inflivt the punilhments appointed by the law. “ Tertiis nundinia
capite
Slavefy.
12
Its dura-
(JOB.
13
Slavery a-
mong the
ancient
Germans.
SLA [ 39° 1 SLA
unhappy raeh as fell into that ftate, whether through
the chance of war or the cruelty of a fordid creditor (g).
The confequence was, that the number of Haves belong-
iug to the rich patricians was almoft incredible. Caius
Csecilius Ifidorus, who died about feven years before
the Chriftian era, left to his heirs 4116 Haves 5 and if
any one of thofe wretched creatures made an unfuccefs-
ful attempt to regain his liberty, or was even fufpeCled
of fuch a defign, he ivas marked on the forehead with a
red-hot iron (h). In Sicily, during the moft HouriHiing
periods of the commonwealth, it teems to have been
cuftomary for matters to mark their Haves in this man¬
ner ; at leaft we know that fuch was the pradtice of
Damophilus, who, not fatisfied with this fecUrity, fliut
up his Haves every night in clofeprifons, and led them
out like beafts in the morning to their daily labour in
the field. Hence arofe the fervile war in Sicily.
Though many law’s ivere enadted by Auguitus and
other patriotic emperors to diminifli the power ot credi¬
tors over their infolvent debtors j though the influence
of the mild fpirit of Chriftianity tended much to meli¬
orate the condition of Haves, even under Pagan mafters •,
and though the emperor Adrian made it capital to kill
a Have without a juft reafon j yet this infamous com¬
merce prevailed univerfally in the empire for many ages
after the converfion of Conftantine to the religion of
Chrift. It was not indeed completely aboliftied even in
the reign of Juftinian ; and in many countries which
had once been provinces of the empire it continued long
after the empire itfelf had fallen to pieces.
It'has already been obferved, that among the ancient
Germans it was not uncommon for an ardent gamefter
to lofe his perfonal liberty by a throw of the dice. This
was indeed a ftrong proof of favage manners ; but the
general condition of Haves among thofe favages feems to
have been much better than among the polifhed Greeks
•and Romans. In Germany the Haves were generally
attached to the foil, and only employed in tending cat¬
tle, and carrying on the bufmefs of agriculture ; for
the menial offices of every great man’s houfe were per¬
formed by his wife and children. Such Haves were feh
dom beaten, or chained, or imprifoned. Sometimes in¬
deed they wrere killed by their mafters in a fit of Hid¬
den paffion j but none ivere confidered as materials of
commerce, except thofe who had originally been free¬
men, and loft their freedom by play. Thefe, indeed,
the fuccefsful gamefter was very ready to fell, both be- Slavery.'
caufe he felt them an ufelefs burden, and becaufe their v—
prefence continually put him in mind of that ftate to
which a throw of the dice might one day reduce him-
felf.
Such is the account w’hich Tacitus gives * of Havery
among the ancient Germans. The Anglo-Saxons, how- 24,
ever, after they were fettled in this ifland feem not to
to have carried on that traffic fo honourably. By a fta-
tute of Alfred the Great f, the purchafe of a man, a f Wilkin's
horfe, or an ox, without a voucher to warrant the iale,c Hellion of
was llriftly forbidden. That law was, doubtlefs, enaft-
ed to prevent the Jlealing of men and cattle j but it t0 ncnry
ffiow's us that fo late as the ninth or tenth century a //j.
man, when fairly purchafed, W’as, in England, as much 14
the property of the buyer as the horfe on which he rode, I,\fngIan*
or the ox which dragged his plough. In the fameKliu
country, now fo nobly tenacious of freedom and the
rights of man, a fpecies of flavery fimilar to that w’hich
prevailed among the ancient Germans fubfifted even to
the end of the fixteenth century. This appears from a
commiffion iffued by Queen Elizabeth in 1574, for in¬
quiring into the lands and goods of all her bond-men and
bond women in the counties of Cornwall, Devon, So-
merfet, and Gloucefter, in order to compound with them
for their manumiffion, that they might enjoy their lands
and goods as freemen J. In Scotland there certainly j Karnes’s
exifted an order of Haves or bond-men, who tilled Sketches,
ground, were attached to the foil, and with it wfre
transferable from one proprietor to another, at a period * 15 5"
fo late as the thirteenth century, but when or how Scotland,
thofe villains, as they were called, obtained their free¬
dom, feems to be unknown to every lawyer and anti¬
quary of the prefent day. Coalliers and falters were,
in the fame country, Haves till little more than 30 years
ago, that they xvere manumitted by an aft of the Bri-
tiffi legiflature, and reftored to the rights of freemen
and citizens. Before that period the fons of coalliers
could follow no bufinefs but that of their fathers ; nor
were they at liberty to feek employment in any other
mines than thofe to which they were attached by-
birth, without the confent of the lord of the manor,
who, if he had no ufe for their fervices himfelf, trans¬
ferred them by a written deed to fome neighbouring pro¬
prietor. _ 1 <5
That the favage nations of Africa were at any period Slavery a?
of nrong the
Carthagi*
       - "■ mans,
capite poenas dato aut trans Tiberim peregre venumduito j” that is, “ Let him on the third market-day be punifh-
cd with death, or fold beyond the Tiber as a Have.” If there were feveral creditors, they were allowed,_ in conle-
quence of this fevere law, to divide the body of the prifoner into feveral parts, and ffiare it among them in propor- v
tion to the Him which they demanded. . #
(g) This is evident from the ftory of Appius and Virginia. See Rome, N 113. r a* tu *
(h) How capricioufly and unjuftly this infamous mark was impreffed, we learn f101^ t e ory ® e
man being proferibed, and a reward offered for his head by the triumvirs Oftavianus, Antony, an epi us, con
cealed himfelf from the fury of the tyrants in the beft way that he could. A Have whom he had marked with the
hot iron having found out the place of his retreat, condufted him to a cave, and there fupported him for lome time
with what he earned by his daily labour. At length a company of foldiers coming that way, and approaching the
cave, the faithful Have, alarmed at the danger his mafter was in, followed them clofe, and falling upon a poor pea-
fant, killed him in their prefence, and cut off his head, crying out, “ I am now revenged on my mafter for the
marks with which he has branded me.” The foldiers, feeing the infamous marks on his forehead, and not doubt¬
ing but he had killed Reftio, fnatched the head out of his hand, and returned with it in all hafte to the triumvirs.
They were no fooner gone, than the Have conveyed his mafter to the fea-iide, where they had the good luck to
find one of Sextius Pompeius’s veffels, w’hich tmnfported them fafe into Sicily.
»
SLA
Slave rv.
* Polyb.
^y. Curt.
IHod. Sic.
Set alfo
Ancient
Unvver/al
Hi/lory,
vol. XV.
f JuJlin.
lib. xxi.
cap- 6. and
Univerfal
Hijlory.
| Tit. Liv.
Appian and
Zonaras.
*7
And Numi-
4uns.
cf hiftory exempted from this opprobrium of our nature
which fpread over all the reft of the world, the enlight¬
ened reader will not fuppofe. It is indeed in that vaft
country that flavery has in every age appeared in its ug-
lieft form. We have already obferved, that about the
era of the Trojan war, a commerce in flaves wTas car¬
ried on between Phoenicia and Libya : and the Cartha¬
ginians, who w7ere a colony of Phoenicians, and revered
the cuftoms, manners, and religion of their parent ftate,
undoubtedly continued the Tyrian traffic in human flefli
with the interior tribes of Africa. Of this we might
reft affured, although we had no other evidence of the
faft than what refults from the praflice of human facri-
fices fo prevalent in the republic of Carthage. The ge¬
nuine inftindls of nature are often fubdued by dire fuper-
ftition, but they cannot be wholly eradicated j and the
rich Carthaginian, when a human vitftim was demanded
from him to the gods, would be ready to fupply the
place of his own child by the fon of a poor ftranger, per-
fidioufly purchafed at whatever price. That this w’as,
indeed, a very common praflice among them, wTe learn
from the teftimony of various hiftorians *, wffioalTure us,
that wffien Agathocles the tyrant of Syracufe had over¬
thrown their generals Hanno and Bomilcar, and threat¬
ened Carthage itfelf with a fiege, the people attributed
their misfortunes to the juft anger of Saturn for having
been worfhipped, for fome years, by the facrifices of
children meanly born and fecretly bought, inftead of
thofe of noble extraction. Thefe fubftitutions of one of¬
fering for another were conftdered as a profane deviation
from the religion of their forefathers •, and therefore to
expiate the guilt of fo horrid an impiety, a facrifice of
200 children of the firft rank was on that occafion made
to the bloody god. As the Carthaginians were a com¬
mercial people, wTe cannot fuppofe that they purchafed
flaves only for facrifices. They undoubtedly condemn¬
ed many of their prifoners of wrar to the ftate of fervi-
tude, and either fold them to foreigners, or diftributed
them among their fenators and the leaders of their ar¬
mies. Hanno, who endeavoured to ufurp the fupreme
power in Carthage whilft that republic was engaged in
war with Timoleon in Sicily-f-, armed 20,000 of his
Haves in order to carry his nefarious purpofe into execu¬
tion ; and Hannibal, after his decifive viflory at Can*
nae, fold to the Greeks many of his prifoners whom the
Roman fenate refufed to redeem J. That illuftrious
commander was indeed more humane, as well as more
politic, than the generality of his countrymen. Before
his days it was cuftomary with the Carthaginians either
to maffacre their captives in cold blood, that they might
never again bear arms againft them, or to offer them in
facrifice as a grateful acknowledgement to the gods by
whofe affiftance they believed that they were vanquifti-
ed ; but this was not always done even by their moft fu-
perftitious or moft unprincipled leaders. Among other
rich fpoils which Agathocles, after his viftory already
mentioned, found in the camp of Hanno and Bomilcar,
were twenty thoufand pair of fetters and manacles, which
thofe generals had provided for fuch of the Sicilian pri¬
foners as they intended to preferve alive and reduce to a
ftate of flavery.
With the ancient ftate of the other African nations
w'e are but very little acquainted. The Numidians,
Mauritanians, Getulians, and Garamantes, are indeed
mentioned by the Roman hiftorians, who give us ample
[ 391 ]
SLA
details of the battles which they fought in attempting Slavery ^
to preferve their national independence j but we have "V"*'
no particular account of their different manners and cuf¬
toms in that age wffien Rome was difputing with Car¬
thage the fovereignty of the world. All the African
ftates of wdiich we know any thing, were in alliance
with one or other of thofe rival republics j and as the
people of thofe ftates appear to have been lefs enlighten¬
ed than either the Romans or the Carthaginians, we
cannot fuppofe that they had purer morals, or a greater
regard for the facred rights of man, than the powerful
nations by whom they were either protefted or oppref-
fed. They would, indeed, infenfibly adopt their cuf¬
toms } and the ready market which Marius found for
the prifoners taken in the town Capfa, although Salluft
acknowdedges J that the fale w'as contrary to the law's t Belt,.
of war, {hows that flavery wTas then no ftrange thing \.oJuE'
the Numidians. It feems indeed to have prevailed
through all Africa from the very firft peopling of that
unexplored country $ and we doubt if in any age of the
world the unhappy negro was abfolutely fecure of his
perfonal freedom, or even of not being fold to a foreign
trader. l8
It is the common opinion that the pra&ice of ma- slave-trade
king {laves of the negroes is of a very modern date j that with the
it owes its origin to the incurfions of the Portuguefe on coa^ 0j
tlie wellern coaft of Africa; and that but for the cun-
ning or cruelty of Europeans, it wmuld not now exift, ,-he p0rtu-
and would never have exifted. But all this is a compli- guefe,';
cation of miftakes. A learned writer has lately proved, * Whit a*
with a force of evidence which admits of no reply *,ke.’ s
that from the coaft of Guinea a great trade in Haves Gibbon's
was carried on by the Arabs fome hundreds of years Roman
before the Portuguefe embarked in that traffic, or Hijlory.
had even feen a woolly-headed negro. Even the ^
wandering Arabs of the defert, who never had any Apdb/at an
friendly correfpondence with the Chriftians of Europe, early period*
have from time immemorial been ferved by negro „ ^ -fr
flaves. “ The Arab muft be poor indeed (fays M.
Saugnier) not to have at leaft one negro Have. His/0^v Voya*
foie occupation is the care of the herd. They are ne-^er.
ver employed ia war, but they have it in their power
to marry. Their waves, who are captive negreffes,
do all the domeftic wmrk, and are roughly treated by the
Arabian wromen, and by the Arabs themfelves. Their
children are flaves like them, and put to all kinds of
drudgery.” Surely no man whofe judgement is not
completely warped by prejudice, wall pretend that thofe
roving tribes of favages, fo remarkable for their inde¬
pendent fpirit and attachment to ancient cuftoms, learn¬
ed to enflave the negroes from the Europeans. In all¬
probability they have, without interruption, continued
the praftice of flavery from the days of their great an-
ceftor Iftimael j and it feems evident, that none of the
European nations had ever feen a wool/i/ headed negro till
the year xioo, when the crufaders fell in wTith a fmall
party of them near the town of Hebron in Judea, and
were fo ftruck wnth the novelty of their appearance, that
the army burft into a general fit of laughter*. Long®
before the crufades, however, we know with certainty p
that the natives of Guinea had been expofed to fale in
foreign countries. In 651 the Mahometan Arabs of
Egypt fo haraffed the king of Nubia or Ethiopia, who
was a Chrillian, that he agreed to fend them annually,
by way of tribute, a vajl number of Nubian or Ethio¬
pian:
Slavery.
Modern
Univerfal
Hiftory,
vol. i. 525.
Whita¬
ker's Re¬
view.
70
The ne¬
groes have
enflaved
one ano¬
ther from
time imme.
morial.
* Modern
Univerjal
Hiftory,
vol. xiii.
.chap. 47.
feil. 2.
SLA t 39
pran Jlaves into Egypt. Such a tribute as this at that
time, we are told, was more agreeable to the khalif than
any other, as the Arabs then made no /mail account of
thofe Jlaves *.
The very propofal of fuch a tribute, and the eftima-
tion in which black (laves were held in Egypt, (hows
that a commerce in bond fervants could not then be a
new branch of trade either to the Arabs or the Ethio¬
pians 5 but the vaft number which the Ethiopian mo¬
narch was now compelled to furnifh every year, indu¬
ced him to feed this great drain upon his fubjefts from
the natives of the neighbouring countries. “ He ranged
accordingly into all that vaft blank of geography upon
the map of the world, the fpreading bofom of the Afri¬
can continent 5 and even pufhed through it to its fartheft
extremities in the weft. He thus brought the blacks of
Guinea, for the firft time, into the fervice and families
of the eaft ; and the (laves which he paid in tribute to
the Arabs, whether derived from the nearer neighbour¬
hood of Ethiopia, fetched from the mediterranean regi¬
ons of Africa, or brought from the diftant (bores of the
Atlantic, were all denominated Ethiopians, from the
country by which they were conveyed into Egypt-f.
“ At this time, therefore, according to Mr Whitaker,
began that kind of traffic in human (leffi
“ Which fpoils unhappy Guinea of its fons.”
There are not many authors from whom, in queftions
of antiquity, we differ with greater hefitation •, but, as
we meet with a female Ethiopian (lave in the Eunuch of
Terence, we cannot help fufpe£Hng that Guinea was oc-
cafionally “ fpoiled of its fons” at a much earlier period.
At any rate, from the obfervations made by the European
travellers wffiofirft penetrated into that continent, it appears
undeniable that (layery muft have prevailed from time im¬
memorial among fuch of the tribes as had never carried
on any commerce with foreign nations. When Battel firft
vifited the Giagas *, thofe people had never before feen
a white man •, yet they welcomed him and the Englifh,
with whom he had come, to their country, invited them
to bring their goods on (bore, and without hefitation
loaded the (hips with (laves. The Giagas were indeed
waging war with the kingdom of Benguela j and being
cannibals, who prefer human flefti to all others, the
flaves whom they had fold to the Engliffi were pro¬
bably prifoners whom they would have killed and eaten
if they had not found an opportunity of otherwite dif-
pofing of them to greater advantage. But as they had
not been incited by the Europeans to eat their prifoners,
there can be no reafon to fuppofe that by the Europeans
they had been firft induced to fell them •, for we have feen
that this kind of commerce prevailed in Africa among
people much more polifiied than the Giagas fo early as
in the reign of Jugurtha.
That it was not introduced among the negroes either
by the Arabs or by the Portuguefe, appears ftill more
evident from the behaviour of the Dahomans at the con-
queft of Whidah, and from the manner in which the
2 ] SLA
people of Angola at the earlieft ftage of their foreign Slavery,
trade procured a fupply of fiaves for the Portuguefe—v—
market. The greater part of the (laves whom the An¬
golans exported from St Paulo de Luanda were brought
from interior countries, fome hundreds of leagues di¬
ftant, where they could not have been regularly purcha-
fed had that commerce been till then unknown in thofe
countries. The Dahomans, in the beginning of the
year 1727, had never feen a white man : and when their
victorious prince and his army, in their rout through
Whidah, firft met with fome Europeans in the town of
Sabi, they were fo (hocked at their complexion and
their drefs, that they were afraid to approach them,
and could not be perfuaded that they were men till
they heard them fpeak, and were affured by the
Whidanefe that thefe were the merchants who purcha-
fed all the (laves that were fold in Guinea f. Slavery, f Modern
therefore, if it prevailed among the Dahomans before Uniierfal
that period, could not have been introduced among Hiftory,
them by European or Arabian intrigues: but we areV0'MU’
affured by Snelgrave, who was then in the army, that
thofe people treated their captives with fuch horrid
cruelty as was (hocking to the natives of the fea-coaft,
and leaves no room for doubt but that (lavery had been
pra&ifed among them from the earlieft ages. A great
part of their prifoners w^ere facrificed to their gods or
eaten by the foldiers 5 and when our author exprefied
to a colonel of the guard fome furprife that a prince fo
enlightened as the fovereign of Dahomy (hould facri-
fice fo many men whom he might have fold to great
advantage, he was gravely told, that it had been the
cuftom of their nation, from time immemorial, to offer,
after victory, a certain number of prifoners to the godsj
and that they feleded the old men for victims, becaufe
they were of lefs value at market, and more dangerous
from their experience and cunning, than the young
men. To thofe perfons who fancy that the Wars be¬
tween the African princes are carried on for the foie
purpofe of fupplying the European (hips with (laves, it
may be proper to remark, that one of the kings of Da¬
homy (laughtered at once not only all the captives ta¬
ken in war, but alfo 127 prifoners of different kinds,
that he might have a fufficiency of (hulls to adorn the
walls of his palace •, though at the very time of that
mafl’acre he knew that there were fix flave-ftiips in the
road of Whidah, from which he could have got for eve¬
ry prime (lave a price little (liort of thirty pounds fter-
ling t „ , , . , , t Dal%eVs
Thefe faCts, and numberlefs others which the reader Biftory of
w-ill find detailed in the 13th volume of the Modern the Ring- 1
Univerfal Hiftory, by writers who were at the greateft
pains to procure authentic information } who were nei-
ther biaffed by intereft nor blinded by enthufiafm 5 and
who appear to have held the infamous traffic in utter
abhorrence—prove beyond the poflibility of doubt, that
(lavery of the worft kind muft have prevailed among all
the negro nations before they were vifited either by the
Portuguefe or by the Arabs (1). Thefe two nations
may
(1) The fame thing appeal's from the voyages of M. Saugnier, who had an opportunity of converfing with
many tribes of negroes, and who always fpeaks of (lavery as an eftablifhed pradice among them 5 adding, that
fuch as are fold for crimes are put to death by their owm countrymen if'they fly from their mailer. It appears
i&ewife in a ftill more ftriking light from Dalzel’s Hiftory of Dahomy, where we are told that all the Daho-
SLA
[ 393 ]
SLA
Slavery.
it
Tbe route
by wht h
the Arabs
carrie 1 on
the flave-
trrde,
Whitaker
Review,
p. 185.
may indeed have been the firft who dragged the unhap¬
py negro from his native continent, and made his flavery
doubly fevere, by compelling him to labour, without his
own confent, for mailers whom he hardly confidered'as
human beings.
On the beginning of this commerce, or the dreadtul
cruelty with which it has been carried on to the prefcnt
day, it is impollible to refledt without horror ; but there
is lome confolation, however fmall, in knowing that its
original authors were not Europeans, dhe purchale of
Guinea blacks for Oaves by foreign nations commenced
ages before the Portuguefe had laid that countiy open
to the intercourfe of Europe. Even after they had made
many incurlions into it, the inhabitants were as reguia.ly
purchafed for Oaves by fome of the adjoining dates as
they are now by the maritime European?.
“ The Arabs of Egypt having reduced all the north
of Africa, and carrying with them their love of black
fervants, would be fure to open a ready communication
for themfelves to their country. They certainly had
one fo early as 1512, and before the Europeans had
>s any for that purpofe (k). They went from Barbary
by a route that was fo much practifed, as to be denomi¬
nated exprefsly ‘ the way of the camels.’ Meeting to¬
gether at the town of Cape Cantin, or that ot Valadie
near it, the commercial caravan traverfed the vail deferts,
thofe of Sarra, which run like the tropic of Cancer over
them in a long line acrofs the country ; to a place of
great population called Hoden, the Waden or Hoden of
our maps, and a little to the fouth-weft of Cape Bianco.
From Hoden they turned to the left, and pulhed di-
rebtly into the interior of the continent, to reach Te-
gazza, the ox lo^ci'zci of our maps, and lying
nearly call of Hoden. Here affuredly they did, as the
caravan does certainly at this day ; and added to t»ie
other wares upon their camels a quantity of fait from
thofe mines of rock-falt, which are extraordinary enough
to be noticed as rocks in our maps. This they carried, as
they dill carry it, to Tanbut, the Tombut of the maps,
and a town in the heart of the African continent. And
from this town they turned on the right for the fea coaft
again, and reached it in the great kingdom of Mele,
the Melli of our maps, to the fouth of the Gambia, and
juft at the fpringing as it were of that grand arch
Vol. XIX. Part I.
of fea which curves fo deeply into the body of the Slavery*
land, and conftitutes the extenftve gulf of Guinea. v J
At Melli and at Tombut they received a meafure of
gold for a meafure of fait. The caravan collects gold
at Tombut to the prefent time 5 but at Melli they
purchafed gold, and alfo filver, in pieces as large as peb¬
bles. And at Hoden they had a great mart for Jlaves ;
the blacks being brought thither from the countries ad¬
joining, and bartered away to the traders. Such was
the Slave Coaft and the Gold Coaft of former days.
The ftaple commodity of Hoden is only transferred now
to Whidahj and diverted from the Arabs of Barbary 22
to the Chriftians of Europe,” by whom the negroes are which is
carried to the continent of America or to the Sugar now jr^nf-
lilands in the Weft Indies. In thefe countries they
are all fold like beafts in a market; but they experiencepeanS.
very different degrees of fervitude from the different
mailers who hold them as property. Such of them as
are reconciled to the appearance of white men, or have
been born in the European colonies, feel themfelves
as happy under a humane mafter as they could be in
their native continent (l) ; and we believe that few ot
them in fuch circumftances have expreffed a defire to
return.” 23
In the French Weft India illands, before the late re- Condition
volution in the mother country, which has produced in of
all its dependencies anarchy and maffacre, the condition ^indies
of the negro (laves w^as better than that of the bond-under the
men among the ancient Germans. “Thofe of them 0ld govern-
who cultivated the plantations were attached to the foil, meat,
and could not be drawn off to pay debts, or be fold fe-
parately from the eftate on which they lived. This
gave them a lafting property in their huts and little
fpots of ground, which they might fafely cultivate with¬
out dread of being turned out of pcffeffion, or transfer¬
red contrary to their intereft and feelings from one pro¬
prietor to another. They were under the protection of
law as foon as they arrived in the colony. Proper mif-
fionaries were appointed for the purpofe of training them
up to a certain degree of religious knowledge, and am¬
ple funds were allotted for the maintenance of thofe ec-
clefiaftics. On ill treatment received from his mafter,
or on being deprived of his allowance of food and rai¬
ment, the flave was directed to apply to the king’s at-
3 D torney,
mans from the loweft to the higheft, acknowledge the right of the fovereign to difpofe of their perfons and pro¬
perties at pleafure ; and where we learn, that the fovereign himfelf affured Mr Abfon the Enghlh governor at
Wind ah, that all his anceftors had from time immemorial put to death every priloner of war whom they could
not fell as a (lave. _ „ ' , . . r
(K) In the year 1442, Anthony Gonfalez, a Portuguefe adventurer, refiored to their native country lome
Moorilh nrifoners whom he had two years before forcibly carried off from the coaft of Africa. Hejanded them at
fao del-Oro, and received from the Moors in exchange ten blacks and a quantity of gold dull. I his tranfaCHon
proves, that a commerce in black fervants was then regularly carried on by the Moors and not by the Portuguefe.
So early as the year 1502, the Spaniards began to employ a few negroes in the mines of Hifpaniola; but in the
year following, Ovando, the governor of that ifland, forbade the further importation of them, alleging that they
taught the Indians all manner of wickednefs, and rendered them lefs traaable than formerly: and it was not till
the year 1517 that the fun ply of negroes to the Spanifh American plantations^ became an eftabliflied and regular
branch of commerce. Edwards's Hi/lory of the Wefi Indiet, Book IV. chap. ii.
44 { have obferved many of my (laves go on board the veftel with joy, on my affurance that thej would be
well treated and happy on the plantation where I wras going to lend them. \\ hen the Banbarans find that they
are trufted by the whites, they never think of making their efcape, choofing to be tbe flaves of Europeans rather
than of a black man who would treat them with the greateft cruelty. Voyages to the Coajl of Africa by Meffrs
Saugnier and Briffbn, p. 332. 335. Englifh Tranflation,
/
SLA [ 39+ ] SLA
Slavery, torney, who was obliged to profecute the mailer forth- {laves with difcretion and humanity.
with. That officer was alfo bound to profecute, if by
any other means he heard of the abufe ; the law' adding
as the reafon, This we will to be obferved, to check the
* Ramfav's abufe of power in the tna/ler
Ejfny o n
the Treat¬
ment and
Convetjion
of Slaves,
Sedt. v.
24
In tbe BrS-
tifh iflands.
J^TNeil's
Ohferva-
tio its on the i
We w’ifh it wTere in our power to fay, that in the Eri-
tifh Weft India colonies Haves are equally protected by
law' as they were in the French iflands under the old go¬
vernment, and that the fame care is taken of their mo¬
ral and religious improvement. This, however, we are
afraid, cannot be faid with truth. In the ifland of Ja¬
maica, before the palling of the confolidated Jlave act,
not many years ago, a white man, whether proprietor
or not, who had killed a negro, or by an aft of feverity
been the caufe of his death, was, for the firft offence,
intitled to benefit of clergy, and not liable to capital
punifhment till a repetition of the crime. Ey the pre-
fent law’, it is enafted, “ That if any perfon, whether
owner or fuperintendant of Haves, ffiall be convifted of
"'Treatment having, by any aft of paffion or cruelty, occafioned the
of Negroes death of any negro, it fhall be capital for the frjl of-
711 the if and fence : and for the greater fecurity of the property,
of jamai- ancj as a check on thofe who may have the puniffiment
of Haves in their power, it is particularly required, that
every furgeon or doftor belonging to each eftate ffiall
fwear to the caufe of the death of each negro, to the
beft of his knowledge and belief j and if any negro
dies, and is interred by the owner or overfeer, without
the doftor’s having feen or been fent for to fuch negro,
jn this cafe the owner or overfeer caufing the negro to
be fo interred is liable to a profecution for fuch con-
duft.”
This law muft doubtlefs be produftive of good effefts,
but being a colonial aft, it cannot have the vigour of
the Code Noir ; nor do we know of any attorney in the
ifiand wrho is obliged to defend the rights of the negroes,
or profecute the mafter whofe cruelty has by any means
come to his knowledge. The juftices and veftry of each
pariffi are indeed conftituted a council of protection, for
the exprefs purpofe of making full enquiry into the bar¬
barities exercifed on Haves, and bringing the authors to
puniffiment at the public expence •, and by a new ffiave-
aft of Grenada, the juftices are required annually to no¬
minate three freeholders to be guardians of the faves,
\F.dvuardTswho are to take an oath to fee the law duly execuled f.
HiJlory of Thefe are benevolent regulations •, but we doubt if pro-
teftion can be fo promptly afforded by a council of guar¬
dians as by an individual attorney who has no other em¬
ployment. In feme of the other Britiffi iftands, we have
been confidently told that the unfortunate fons of Afri¬
ca have no proteftion whatever againft the tyranny of a
fordid owmer, or the caprice of a boyith overfeer (m) ;
though it is added, that the humanity of many matters
more than fupplies the want of laws in every refpeft
but that of improvement, and that the attachment of
others has in them a like effeft. In fome cafes good
fenfe, a regard for their reputation, and a w'ell-informed
conviftion of their intereft, induce men to treat their
the fVeJl
Indies,
book iv.
chap. v.
I he Haves of Slavery,
many a planter poffefs advantages beyond what the la- ' 
bourer even of Britain enjoys X f yet thefe advantages | Ramfafs
all depend upon the good wall of his mafter j and in r\oEJciys,
part of the Britilh colonies are the Haves attached to theF ^ and
foil. This fingle circumftance, together with the total91,
negleft of their moral and religious culture, makes their
fituation much lefs eligible than rvas that of the French
Haves under the old government j and affords a ftriking
proof of what the humane author w hom we have juft
quoted well obferves, that “ thofe men and nations
whom liberty hath exalted, and urho therefore ought to
regard it tenderly in others, are conftantly for reftrain-
ing its bleffings w'ithin their own little circle, and de¬
light more in augmenting the train of their dependants
than in adding to the rank of fellow-citizens, or in dif-
fufing the benefits of freedom among their neighbours.”
. . . . 25
Having given this ample detail of the rife and pro-Uielaw-
grefs of ttavery in the w’orld, and ffiown that it has pre-fuInefs °f
vailed in every age, and under all religions, we ffiall now ‘|P"
proceed to enquire whether a praftice fo general be inj^'1  
any inftance lawful; and if it be, how it muft be modi¬
fied, in order to be rendered confiftent with the rights of
man and the immutable laws of virtue.
That in a ftate of nature one man has a right to
feize upon another, and to compel him by force to la¬
bour for his fubfiftence, is a pofition which we believe
has never been ferioufiy maintained. But independent
communities ftnnd to each other in the very fame rela¬
tion that individuals do in a ftate of nature ; and there¬
fore if in fuch a ftate the man of greater bodily ftrength
or mental fagacity would have no right to convert his
weaker neighbour into perfonal property, neither can
the more powerful and enlightened nation have a right
to carry off by force, or entice by fraud, the fubjefts of
a weaker and more barbarous community for the pur¬
pofe of reducing them to a Hate of fervitude. This is
n truth fo obvious as to admit neither of proof nor of
denial.
In thus Hating the cafe between two independent na¬
tions, wTe have in our eye that traffic in Haves which is
carried on between the civilized Europeans and the bar¬
barous Africans: and the utmoft length which we think
an apologift for that trade can go is to contend, that
we may lawfully purchafe Haves in thofe countries where
from time immemorial they have been a common branch
of commerce. But the European right to purchafe The a m-
cannot be better than the African right to fell j andmorapo-
we have never yet been informed what gives one Afri- |ogy tor it
can a right to fell another. Such a right cannot be na-
lural, for the reafon which we have elfewhere affigned
(fee Right) : neither can it be adventitious ; for ad¬
ventitious rights are immediately derived from the mu¬
nicipal law’, which is the public will of the ftate. But
the Hate has no authority to deprive an innocent man
of his perfonal freedom, or of the produce of his own
labour ; for it is only to fecure thefe, by protefting the
weak
(m) In Barbadoes there is faid to be a law' for the proteftion of Haves, which is the moft infolent trilling with
iufiice and humanity that the wniter of this article has ever feen. It is enafted, forfooth, “ I hat if any man Aral!,
of wantonnefs, or only oi blood7/-tnindedriefs, ox cruel intention, wilfully kill a negro or other Have, if his own, he fliall
pay into the public treafury fftecn pounds ferling l See Dickfon's Letters on Slcvcnj, p. q.
SLA
[ 395 ]
SLA
Slavery.
a?
No man
has a right
to give
himfelf up
to the ab-
folute dif-
pofal of an¬
other.
aS
What kind
of ilavery
may be em
ployed as a
pumfii-
ment.
weak from tlie violence of the flvong, that, itates are
formed, and individuals united under civil govern-
ment. _ . . .
It may perhaps be faid, that by patiently fubmitting
to governments which authorize the traffic in human
fleffi, men virtually give up their perfonal liberty, and
veil their governors with a right to fell them as llaves .
but no man can veil another with a right which he
poffeffes not himfelf •, and we {hall not nefitate to af¬
firm, that in a ftate of nature where all have equal
rights, no individual can fubmit himfelf to the abfolute
difpofal of another without being guilty of the greateft
crime. The reafon is obvious. From the relation in
which men Hand to one another as fellow-creatures, and
to God as their common Creator, there are duties in¬
cumbent upon each peculiar to himfelf} in the perform¬
ance of which he can be guided only by his own rea¬
fon, which was given him for that very purpofe.. I>ut
he who renounces his perfoual freedom, and fubmits un¬
conditionally to the caprice of a mailer, impioully at¬
tempts to fet himfelf free from the obligation of that law
which is interwoven with his very being, and choofes
a director of his condudl different from that which
God has affigned him. A man therefore cannot put
himfelf m a Hate oi unconditional lervitude ^ and what
he cannot do for himfelf, he furely cannot authorize
others to do for him either by a tacit or by an open
confent.
Thefe confiderations have often made us regret t.iat
writers, for whofe talents and integrity w^e have the
higheft refpeft, ffiould, without accurately defining what
they mean by flavery, have peremptorily affirmed, that,
confiftently with the law of nature men may be redu¬
ced to that ftate as a puniihment for crimes, or to dif-
charge debts which they cannot otherwife p"iy. Tl hat
a criminal, who has forfeited his life to the laws of his
country, may have his puniihment commuted for hard
labour, till death in the courfe of nature (hall put a pe¬
riod to his terreftrial exiftence, is a truth which we ap¬
prehend cannot be controverted ; but to make fuch a
commutation of punifhments confiftent with the laws of
nature and of nature’s God, it appears to us that the
kind and degree of .labour muft be precifely afeertained,
and the conduff of the criminal not lelt to the capricious
direflion of any individual.
Puniffiments can be juftly inflicted only for one or
other of two ends, or for both. They may be calcula¬
ted either to reform the criminal or to be a warning to
the innocent } and thofe which mod effectually aniivei
both thefe purpofes are furely to be preferred to fuch
as anfwer but one of them. For this reafon we confi-
der hard labour as a much fitter puniihment for moft
crimes than death : but to entitle it to piefeience, tne
kind and degree of the labour muft be afeertained by the
law ; for if thefe circumftances be omitted, and the of¬
fender delivered over as a flave to the abfolute dilpofal
and caprice of a private mailer, the labour to which he
is condemned, inftead of operating to bis reformation,
may be converted into the means of tempting him to
the commiffion of new crimes. A young woman, jn the
ftate of fervitude, would hardly be able to maintain her
virtue againlt the fobcitations of a mafter who ffiould
promife her liberty or a remiffion of toil upon her yield¬
ing to his defires •, and the felon, who had long been
accuftomed to a life of vagrancy and idknefs, would
Slavery.
not ftrenuoufly objeCl to the perpetration of any wick- ^
ednefs to obtain his freedom, or even a diminution of his v
daily taik. Indeed fuch temptations might be thrown in
his way, as human nature could not refill but by means
of much better principles than felons can be fuppoied
to poffefs. lie might be fccurged into compliance ; or
bis labour might be fo increafed as to make him for a
little refpite eagerly embrace the moft nefarious propo-
fal which his mafter could make: for being abfolute
property, there is no earthly tribunal to which he could
appeal for juftice ; and felons do not.commonly fuppert
themlelves under trials by pious meditations on a tutur-
ftate.
By reafoning in this way, we are far from meaning to
infinuate that llave-holders in general torture their llaves
into the commiffion of crimes. God forbid ! Many c*.
them we know to be religious, humane, and benevolent:
but they are not infallible ; and iome of them may o.e
inftigated, lome of them undoubtedly have been infti-
gated, by avarice and other worfe principles, to compel
creatures, who are lo absolutely tneir dependents, to e.v'
ecute deeds of darknefs too hazardous for themfelves.
But the morality or immorality of any aftion, and the
moral filnefs of any ftate, are to be judged of by their
natural tendency, if the one were univerially praftifed
and the other univerfally prevalent (fee Moral Philo¬
sophy, N° 156.) : and as the natural tendency of abfo-
lute domeftic flavery among Inch creatures as. men is to
throw the moft powerful temptations to vice in the
way both of mafter and of (lave, it muft be in every in¬
stance, even when employed as a punithment, inconfift-
ent with the fundamental principles of moral virtue. . . ^ *9
Some writers indeed have maintained, and the civil Children
law feems to fuppofe, that children are the property of"r°openy
their patents, and may by them be fold as flaves in cafes 0f ^heir pa
of urgent neceffity : but if we duly confider how pro- rents,
perty is acquired (fee Property), and attend to the
natural confequences of flavery, we {hall foon be con¬
vinced that this opinion is very ill founded.. The rights
of parents refult from their duties 5 and it is certainly
the duty of that man who has been the inftrument of
bringing into the world an intelle&ual and moral being,
to do every thing in his power to render the exiftence
of that being happy both in the prefent life and in that
which is to come. If this duty be confcientioufly dis¬
charged, the parent has a manifeft right, to the grati¬
tude, love, and reafonable obedience, of his child } but
he cannot, in confequence of any duty performed, claim
a right to transfer that child as property to the.uncon¬
trolled difpofal of any private mafter; for this plain
reafon, that the man who is confidered as the private ,
property of another, cannot reafonably be fuppofed to
enjoy happinefs in this world, and is under many temp¬
tations to do what muft neceffarily render him miferable
in the next. See Moral Philosophy, N° 138.
If criminals cannot be lawfully reduced to a ftate oi
abfolute private flavery, much lefs furely can it be law¬
ful to reduce infolvent debtors and prifoners of war to
that ftate. Many a virtuous man, who has contracled
debts with the faireft profpeft of paying them, has been
fuddenly rendered infolvent by fire, by ihipwreck, or by
the bankruptcy of others with whom he was neceffarily
engaged in the courfe of his trade. Such a man can be
confidered in no refpeft as criminal. He has been in¬
deed unfortunate ; but it would be grofsly unjuft, as
3 D 2 well
S'avcry.
may he
compelled
to labour
for the be¬
nefit of
their cre¬
ditors.
.tt
Two objec¬
tion'' to our
S b A [ 395 ]
well as fliockmgly cruel, to add to his mistortune by re- by hunger
ducing him to a ftate to which we have juft ieen that
3-, the vileft felon cannot be reduced without a violation of
Fraudulent the laws of morality. Fraudulent bankrupts indeed, of
■bankrupts whom we daily fee many, might with great propriety
and .the ftridheft juftice be compehed to extefiuate their
debts by labouring for the benefit of thofe whom they
have injured 5 and criminals of other defciiptions might
be made to work for the benefit of the public*: ’but in
both cafes the talk to be performed ihould be afcertain-
ed by the law, and the perfons of the labourers be pro-
tedled by the ftate. If fuch can be called Haves, their
flavery is undoubtedly confiftent with every principle of
virtue and religion ; for they fufter nothing but the due
reward of their deeds. Prifoners of wTar, however, can
upon no honeft principle be reduced even to this ftate of
mitigated bondage j for they are fo far from incurring
guilt by fighting for their country, that even to their
enemies their courage and condudt in fuch a caufe muft
appear worthy of reward. A victorious general has
certainly a right to prevent the prifoners taken in battle
from again drawing their fwords againft him during the
continuance of the war j but there are many ways by
which this may be done effedtually without chaining the
unfortunate captives to the war, or felling them like cat¬
tle to private purchafers, by w'hom they may be treated
with capricious cruelty, and driven to the perpetration
of the greateft ciimes.
Io theie conclufions, and the reafoning on which
they are built, we are aware it may be objeded, that if
conclufions. private flavery were in every inftance unlawful and in-
confiftent with the fundamental principles of morality,
it would not have prevailed among the ancient patri¬
archs, and far lefs have been authorifed by the Jewifli
34 law-
The former In reply to this objeflion, it may be obferved, that
fiafwered. Abraham, Ifaac, and Jacob, though excellent men, were
not characters abfolutely perfedft ; that as their practice
does not authorife polygamy or inceft among us, it will
not authorife the reducing of our fellow-creatures to a
ftate of hopelefs fervitude ; and that from the circum-
ftances of the age in which they lived, many things
were permitted to them, and were indeed barmleis,
which are forbidden to us, and would now be pernicious.
The charafter of Abraham appears to have been much
more perfect than that of his fon or grandfon j and was
certainly equal, if not fuperior, to that of any other
mere man of whom we read either in profane or even in
facred hillory. We are to remember, however, that he
was born amidft idolaters, and was probably an idolater
himfelf till enlightened by the infpiration of Jehovah,
and called from his kindred and from his father’s houfe.
Before his converfion, he muft have had much cattle and
many flaves, which conftituted the riches of that early
period ; and his cafe would indeed have been peculiarly
hard, had he been commanded to diveft himfelf of his
fervants, and to depart into a ftrange country very thin¬
ly inhabited, without people to proteft his flocks and
herds from beafts of prey. Nor would his lofs have con¬
tributed in any degree to the benefit of his flaves, who,
as the ranks of men were then adjufted, could not long
have preferved their liberty. Had they not been for¬
cibly reduced to their former flate by their idolatrous
countrymen, which in all probability they would have
fceen, they muit have foon fubmitted to it, or perilhed
SLA
Let it be remembered, too, that the bond- SWry.
lervants of Abraham, though conltituting the molt va- 1 y—-'
luable part oi his property, rvere not conhdered as a fpe-
cies of inferior beings, but were treated rather as child¬
ren than as flaves. JLhis is evident from his (peaking
of the lie ward of his houfe as his heir, when complain¬
ing to God of the want of feed. Indeed the manner in
which this circumftance is mentioned, Ihows that it was
then the general praftice to confider domeftic flaves as
members ol the family ; for the patriarch does not lay,
“ I will leave my fubitance to this Eliezer of L)a-
m ale us but his words are, “ Behold to me thou haft
given no feed 5 and lo, one born in my houfe is mij heir*S' * Gen. xv.
from this mode of expreflion we are firongly inclined to3*
think that captives taken in war were in that age of
fimplicity incorporated into the family or tribe of the
conqueror, as they are laid to be at prelent among the
North American Indians, to iupply the place ot thofe
who had fallen in battle. It fo, flavery was then a very
mild thing, unattended with the evils which are now in
its train, and muft often have been highly beneficial to
the captive.
The other part of the obje£!ion appears at firft fight Anfwer to
mere formidable : but perhaps a little attention to the the other,
defign of the Mofaic economy may enable us to remove
it even more completely than this. We need not in¬
form our theological readers, that one great purpofe
for which the pofterity of Abraham were leparated
from the heathen nations around them, was to prelerve
the knowledge of the true God in a world run head¬
long into idolatry. As idolatry appears to have had
fomething in its forms of worfhip extremely captivating
to rude minds, and as the minds of the liraelites at the
era of their departure from Egypt were exceedingly
rude, every method was taken to keep their feparation
from their idolatrous neighbours as complete as pof-
fible. With this view they were commanded to facri-
fice the animals which their Egyptian mailers had wor-
fhipped as gods, and were taught to confider hogs and
fuch other creatures as the heathen offered in facrifice,
when celebrating their myftical and magic rites, as too
unclean to be eaten or even to be touched. Of this di-
ftindlion between clean and unclean beafts, God him¬
felf afligns the reafon : “ I am the Lord your God
(fays he), who have feparated you from other people j
ye fhall therefore put difference between clean and un¬
clean btafts, and between unclean fowls and clean f.” j- Lev. xx.
For the fame reafon they were prohibited from inter- 24, 25, 26.
marrying with the heathen, or having any tranfadlion
whatever with them as neighbours \ and the feven ido¬
latrous nations of Canaan they were ftriFtly command¬
ed to exterminate. “ When the Lord thy God (fays
Mofes) fhall deliver them before thee, thou ftialt fmite
them, and utterly deftroy them : thou (halt make no
covenant with them, nor fhow mercy unto them : nei¬
ther (halt thou make marriages with them : thy daugh¬
ter thou ftialt not give unto his fon, nor his daugh¬
ter fhalt thou take to thy fon 5 for they will turn
away thy fon from following me, that they may ferve
other gods $” f Deut. vii.
Under thefe laws, it is plain that no intercourfe what- 2> 3* 4-
ever could have place between an Iffaelite and a man
of any other nation, unlefs the latter was reduced to
fuch a ftate as that he could neither tempt the former,
nor pra&iie himlelf the rites of his idolatrous worftiip.
But
St’ivrry,
Slave-
trade.
SLA [ 397 1 S
Tut Ae Ifraelitcs avere not fepnrated from the reft of the government as a fource
the world for their own fakes only : They were intend-
( ed to be the repofilaries of the lively oracles or
God, and gradually fpread the light of divine truth
through other nations, till the fulntfu of tune fliou
come, when in Chrift all things were to be gathered
together in one. To anfwer this end, it was necefiary
that there Ihould be fome intercourfe between them and
their Gentile neighbours j but we have feen that men
an intercourfe could only be that which fubfxfts between
mailers and their {laves.
Should this apology for the ilavery which was au-
thorifed by the Jewilh law be deemed fanciful, we beg
leave to fubmit to the confideration ol our readers
the following account of that matter, to which the
fame objeftion will hardly be made. _ It was morally
impoflible that between nations differing fo widely m
religion, cultoms, and manners, as the Jews and Gen¬
tiles, peace Ihould for ever reign without interruption 5
but when wars broke out, battles would be fought,
and prifoners would be taken. How were thefe pnloners
to be difpofed of ? Cartels for exchange were not then
known : it was the duty of the Ifraelites to prevent
their captives from taking up arms a fecond time againit
them j they could not ellablilh them among themfelves
either as artificers or as hulhandmen j for their law en-
ioined them to have no communication with the hea¬
then. There was therefore no other alternative but ei¬
ther to maffacre them in cold blood, or to reduce them
to the condition of Haves. It would appear, however>
that thofe flaves were raifed to the rank of citizens, or
at leaft that their burdens ivere much lightened, as toon
as they were convinced of the truth of^ the Mofaic re¬
velation, and received into covenant with God by the
rite of circumcifion. They were then admitted to
the celebration of the pnffover j concerning which one
law was decreed to the ftranger, and to him that was
home-born. Indeed, when we confider who was the
legiflator of the Jews •, when we reflea upon the num¬
ber of laws enaaed to mitigate flavery among them,
and call to mind the means by which the due execution
of all their laws was enforced, (fee Theology), we
cannot help being of opinion that the heathen^ who was
reduced to flavery in Judea, might be happier, it he
pleafed, than when living as a freeman in his own coun¬
try. But whether this be fo or not, is a matter with
which we have no concern. On account of the hard-
nefs of their hearts, and the peculiarity of their circum-
ftances, many things, of which flavery may have been
one, were permitted to the Jews, which, if praCtued y
Chriftians, would render them highly guilty.
After treating thus largely of flavery in general, we
need not occupy much of the reader’s time with tne
suave trade SL AVE TRADE carried on by the merchants of
5 Europe with the natives of Africa. It is well known
that the Portuguefe were the firft Europeans whoembark-
ed in this trade, and that their example was foon fol¬
lowed by the Dutch and the Englilh. Of the rife and
progrefs of the Englilh commerce in flaves, the reader
vs ill find a fuffinent account in other articles of this
work f. That commerce, though long cherilhed by
| See Com-
favy, mid
Guinea.
L A
6~.w      of national and colonial
wealth, was from its commencement confidered by the
thinking part of the nation as a traffic inconfiftent with
the rights of man, and fufpefted to be carried on by
adts of violence, hefe lufpicions were gradually ipread
through the people at large, and confirmed, in many
inftances, by evidence incontrovertible. Laws were in
confequence enafted to make the negroes more com¬
fortable on what i> called the middle paffage, and to
protedt them againft the wanton cruelty of their matters
in the Weft Indies : but the humanity of the nation
was roufed j and not many years ago a number of gen¬
tlemen of the rcoft refpedtable chojadlers, finding that
no adequate protedfion could be afforded to perlons in a
ftate of hopelefs fervitude, formed themfelves into a foci-
ety at London, for the purpole of procuring a total
abolition of the flave-trade. That the motives which
influenced the leading men of this fociety were of
the pureft kind, cannot, we think, be queftioned ; for
their objea was to deliver thofe who had none to help
them, and from whom they could expedl no othei re¬
ward for their labours of love than the bleffings of them
who were ready to periffi. J o a caufe truly Chriftian,
who did not pray for fuccefs ? or who but muft have
felt the moft pungent regret, if that fuccefs had been
rendered doubtful, or even delayed, by the imprudence
of fome of the agents employed by the fociety ? I his
we apprehend was really the cafe. Language calcula¬
ted only to exafperate the planters could not ferve the ne¬
groes ; and the legillature of Great Britain would never
fuffer itfelf to be forced into any meafure by the mena¬
ces of individuals. . . ^
In the year 1793, petitions were prefented to parlia-Petitions
ment for the abolition of this inhuman traffic, which
gave a pleafmg pifture of the philanthropy of the na- )t_
lion ; but, unfortuately for the caufe of freedom, it was
difeovered that many of the names fubjoined to thofe
petitions had been colle&ed by means not the moft ho¬
nourable. The difeovery, perhaps, vyould never have
been made, had not the infulting epithets mdilcrirm-
nately heaped upon the Have holders provoked thofe
men to watch with circumfpeflion over the condutt ct
their opponents. The confequence was, that iufpicions
of unfair dealing on the part of the petitioners were ex¬
cited in the breads of many who, though they ardent¬
ly wifhed well to the caufe, chafe not to add their
names to thofe of fchool-boys under age, and of pea-
fants who knew not what they were fubfcnbing. Let
the rights of the Africans be maintained with aidoui
and firmnefs-, but never let their advocates fuppofe that
the caufe of humanity requires the fupport o. artifice.
Abfolute flavery, in which the aflions of one man air
regulated by the caprice of another, is a ftate demon-
ftrably inconfiftent with the obvious plan of the moral
government of the world. It degrades Uie mental fa¬
culties of the flave, and throws, both in his way ana
in his mafter’s, temptations to vice almoft infurmount-
able. Let thefe truths be fet in a proper light by
thofe who have doubtlefs feen them exemplified 5 and
they will furely have their full effeft on the minds of a
generous, and, we truft, not an impious people (n).
The trade will be generally abolifhed ; pains will be ta-
35
(„) We have not infifted upon the impolicy of the fhve-tiade, or endeavoured to prove that its abolition
SLA [ 398 ] SLA
Slave- ken to cultivate the minds of the Wcfl: Indian negroes 5
, tnuie- and the era may be at no great diftance when flavery
flirdl ceafe through all the Britiih dominions.
Objection But what benefit, it will be allied, will the negroes
to the aba- of Africa reap from an abolition of the Have trade ?
tmon Should any thing lb wildly incredible happen, as that
all the nations of Chriftendom, in one common paro-
xyfm of philanthropy, (liould abandon this commerce
in fervantS, which has been profecuted in all ages,
and under all religions ; they would only abandon it to
- thofe who were originally poffelTed of it, who Hill pe¬
netrate into the country, and who even pulh up to
Gago at the very head of the Slave coaft 5 and leave the
wool-headed natives of it to Mahometan mailers, in
preference to Chrillian. Under fuch mailers they were
in Judea at the time of the crufades. Under fuch,
as we learn from Meffrs Saugnier, Briffon, and others,
they Hill are in the deferts of Africa, as well as in the
* Afiatic iflands of Johanna and Madagafcar * ; and it is univer-
Refearches, fally known that they enflave one another as a punilh-
ment for the moH whimfical crimes. Among them, in¬
deed, Ha very feems to be reduced to a fytlem, and to
defcend, as it has done in more polifhed nations, from
t Effay 071 father to fon ; for both Saugnier and WadHrom f fpeak
Colom%a- of particular families of negroes who are exempted from
that degrading Hale by the laws of the country.
All this we admit to be true. MoH certainly the
negroes would not be exempted from the miferies of
fervitude, though Europe and the Well Indies were
fwallowed up in the ocean. The cujloms of the coun-
t Bal^eVs tr>b as t^ie Dahomy allured Mr Abfon J, will
Hijlory. be mads as long as black men fliall continue to pollefs
their own territories, in their prefent Hate of depravity
and ignorance •, and thefe cufloms appear to involve
Havery of the cruellefl kind. But if Havery be in itfelf
unlawful, is it a fufficient excufe for our continuing the
37 traffic that it is carried on by the rude negroes and the
of no favage Arabs ? Are people, whom we fometimes affedt
ftrength. to conlider as an inferior order of beings, to furniffi ex¬
amples of condudl to thofe who boafl of their advance¬
ments in fcience, in literature, and in refinement ? Or
will the benevolent Lord of all things pardon us fci^
oppreffing our helplefs brethren, merely becaufe they
are cruelly opprelfed by others ? It is indeed true that
the natives of Guinea cannot be made really free but
by introducing among them the bleffings of religion and
the arts of civil life ; but furely they would have fewer
temptations than at prefent to kidnap one another, or Slave-
to commence unprovoked wars for the purpofeof making trade,
captives, were the nations of Europe to abandon the r—^
commerce in Haves (o). That commerce, we grant,
would be continued by the Arabs, and perhaps by
others ot the eaHern nations j but the fame number of
people could not be carried off by them alone that is
now carried oil both by them and by the Europeans.
Were it indeed polfible to put the Have-trade under
proper regulations, lo as to prevent all kidnapping and
unjull wars among the Africans, to fupply the markets}
and were it likewife poffible to enfure to the negroes in
the W eH Indies mild treatment and religious in Ante-
tion ; we are far from being fure that while the natives
ot Guinea continue fo rude, and their neighbours the
Arabs fo felfilhly favage, it would be proper to abandon
at once to hordes ol barbarians the whole of this com¬
merce in bond fervanls. “ The trade, which in its pre¬
fent form is a reproach to Britain, might be made to
take a new Hiape, and become ultimately a bleffing to
thoufands of wretches who, left in their native country,
would have dragged out a life of miferable ignorance,
unknowing the hand that iramed them, unconlcious of
the reafon of which they were made capable, and heed-
lefs of the happinefs laid up for them in flore §. § Ramfay's
Slavery is, indeed, in every form an evil \ but it feems
to be one of thole many evils which, having long pre-P" ^ic*
vailed in the world, can be advantageoufly removed on¬
ly by degrees, and as the moral cultivation of the Haves
may enable them to fupport the rank and difeharge the
duties of free men. This is doubtlefs the reafon why it
was not exprefsly prohibited by the divine Author of
our religion, but fuffered to vanifli gradually before the ^8
mild influence of his Heavenly do£lrines. It has vanith- Abolition
ed before thefe do&rines in moff countries of Europe ;of the.flave*
and it affords us no fmall gratification to have it in our^^'"
power to record, what indeed mufl be frefli in the me¬
mory of our readers, that the abolition of the Have-trade
was finally accompliffied by the Heady perfeverance and
generous exertions of fome of the moH enlightened and
refpeftable chara£lers in the kingdom, who, after a long
and arduous flruggle, obtained a decree of the legifla’
ture, prohibiting, after a limited period, the trade in
Haves to he continued by fubjefts of Britain. The bill
originated in the houfe of lords, and having undergone
confiderable difeuffion in the houfe of commons, finally
paffed on the 16th of March, and received his majefly’s
affent
would be advantageous to the fugar-planters ; for the planters furely underfland their own interefl better than thofe
can do, who, having never been in the Wrefl Indies, are obliged to content themfelves with what information they
can glean on the fubjeft from a number of violent and contradictory publications. To countenance flavery under
any form is undoubtedly immoral. This we know : and therefore upon this ground have we oppofed the Have-
trade, which cannot be continued without preferring interefl to virtue.
1 (°) Ba a fpeech which Mr Dalzel fays the king of Dahomy made to Mr Abfon, when he was informed of
what had palled in England on the lubjeft of the Have-trade, are thefe remarkable words : “ In the name of
my ancettors and myfelf, I aver that no Dahoman ever embarked in war merely for the fake of procuring
wherewithal to purchafe your commodities.” We mufl take the liberty to queilion the truth of this folemn aver^
ment. ^ tlie Have-trade is not the foie caufe of the Dahoman wars every man will admit, who does not fancy
that tnofe peopre have neither paffions nor appetites, but for the commodities of Europe : but the bare affirma¬
tion or this bloody deipot, who boafled of having killed many thoufands at the cufoms, will not convince thofe
who have read either Wadflrom’s Effay on Colonization, or the evidence refpefting the Have-trade given at the
bar of the Houfe of Commons, “ that no Dahoman ever embarked in war merely to procure Haves to barter for
European commodities.”
Slave-
trade
Sleep¬
walker.
Danger of
a fudden
manumif-
fion of
flavts-
S L E [ 599 ] S L E
affent on tlie 25th March 1807. The lime fixed by ^
the bill, for the total abolition of the trade, we believe,
was the beginning of the following year, viz. January
1808.
We cannot conclude without exprefling a hope, that
the period is not very diftant when the Haves in the
Weft Indies (hall be fo much improved in moral and re¬
ligious knowledge, as that they may be fafeiy trufted
with their own freedom. To iet them free in their pre-
fent (late of ignorance and depravity, is one of the wild-
eft propofals that the ardour of innovation has ever
made. Such freedom would be equally ruinous to
themfelves and to their mafters •, and we may fay of it
what Cicero faid of fome unfeafonable indulgences pro-
pofed to be granted to the (laves in Sicily : Quce cum
acculunt, nemo eji, quin intelligat ruere illatn rempubh-
cam ; hcec ubi veniunt, nemo eft^ qui ullum fpem fcilutis
reliquam ejfe arbitretur.
Thofe of our readers who wifh to enter into a detail
of this fubieef, may confult, with much advantage, The
Hiftory of the Rife, Progrefs, and Accomplifhment of
the Abolition of the African Slave-Trade, by Mr
Clarkfon, 2 vols 8vo.
SLAUGHTER. See Manslaughter, Homicide,
Murder, &c.
SLEDGE, a kind of carriage, without wheels, for
the conveyance of very weighty things, as huge ftones,
bells, &c. The (ledge for carrying criminals, condemn¬
ed for high treafon, to execution, is called HURDLE.
The Dutch have a kind of (ledge on which they can
carry a veflel of any burden by land. It conftfts of a
plank of the length of the keel of a moderate (hip,
raifed a little behind, and hollow in the middle ; fo that
the (ides go a little aflope, and are furnifhed with holes
to receive pins, &c. The reft is quite even.
SLEDGE is a large fmith’s hammer, to be ufed with
both hands: of this there are two forts, the up-hand
(ledge, which is ufed by under workmen, when the
work is not of the larged fort ; it is ufed with both the
hands before, and they feldom raife it higher than their
head. But the other, which is called the about-fledge,
and which is ufed for battering or drawing out the lar-
geft work, is held by the handle with both hands, and
fwung round over their heads, at their arm’s end, to
ftrike as hard a blow as they can.
SLEEP, that (late of the body in which, though the
vital funftions continue, the fenfes are not affefted by the
ordinary impreffions of external objects. See Dreams
and Physiology.
SLEEP-Wa/hr, one who walks in his deep. Many
inftances might be related of perfons who were addicted
to this practice 5 but it will be fufficient to feleft one
remarkable inftance from a report made to the Phyftcal
Society of Laufanne, by a committee of gentlemen ap¬
pointed to examine a young man who was accuftomed to
walk in his fleep.
“ The difpofition to deep-walking feems, in the opi-’
nion of this committee, to depend on a particular affec¬
tion of the nerves, which both feizes and quits the pa¬
tient during deep. Under the influence of this affec¬
tion, the imagination reprefeirts to him the objefts that
druck him while awake, with as much force as if they
really affe&ed his fenfes ; but does not make him per¬
ceive any of thofe that are aftually prefented to his
fenfes, except in fo far as they are conne&ed with the
dreams which engrofs him at the time. If, during this
ftate, the imagination has no determined purpofe, he
receives the impredion of objecls as if he were awake j
only, however, when the imagination is excited to bend
its attention torvards them. The perceptions obtained
in this ftate are very accurate, and, when once received,
the imagination renews them occadonally with as much
force as if they were again acquired by means of the
fenfes. Laftly, thefe academicians fuppofe, that the
impreffions received during this ftate of the fenfes dif-
appear entirely when the perfon awakes, and do not re¬
turn till the return of the fame difpofition in the nervous
(yftem.
“ Their remarks were made on the Sieur Devaud, a
lad thirteen years and a half old, who lives in the town
of Vevey, and who is fubjefl to that Angular affedtion or
difeafe called Somnatnbuiifm or deep-walking. This lad
poffeffes a ftrong and rebut! conftitution, but his nervous
fyftem appears to be organifed with peculiar delicacy,
and to difeover marks of the greateil fendbility and irri¬
tability. His fenfes of fmell, tafte, and touch, are cx-
quifite \ he is fubjed! to fits of immoderate and involun¬
tary laughter, and he fometimes likewife weeps without
any apparent caufe.
“ This young man does not walk in his deep every
night ; feveral weeks fometimes pafs without any ap¬
pearance of a fit. He is fubjeG to the difeafe generally
two nights fuccedively, one fit lading for feveral hours.
The longeft are from three to four hours, and they
commonly begin about three or four o’clock in the morn-
ing.
“ The fit may be prolonged, by gently paffmg the
- finger or a feather over his upper lip, and this dight ir¬
ritation likewife accelerates it. Having once fallen afieep
upon a ftaircafe, his upper lip was thus irritated with a
feather, when he immediately ran down the fteps with
great precipitation, and refumed all his accuftomcd adli-
vity. This experiment was repeated feveral times.
44 The young Devaud thinks he has obferved, that,
on the evenings previous to a fit, he is fenfible of a cer¬
tain heavinefs in his head, but efpecially of a great
weight in his eyelids.
His deep is at all times unquiet, but particularly
when the fits are about to feize him. During his deep,
motions are obfervable in every part of his body, with
darting and palpitations j he utters broken words, fome¬
times fits up in his bed, and afterwards lies down again.
Pie then begins to pronounce words more diftinflly, he
rifes abruptly, and a£ls as he is infiigated by the dream
that then poffeffes him. He is fometimes in deep lubject
to continued and involuntary motions.
“ The departure of the fit is always preceded by two
or three minutes of calm deep, during which he (bores.
ITe then awakes rubbing his eyes like a perfon who has
dept quietly.
“ R is dangerous to awaken him during the fit, efpe¬
cially if it is done fuddenly } for then he (ometimes falls
into convulfions. Having rifen one night with the in¬
tention of going to eat grapes, he left the houfe, palled
through the town, and went to a vineyard where he ex-
pefted good cheer. He was followed by (everal peilons,
who kept at fome diftance from him, one of whom fired
a piftol, the noife of which inftantly awakened him, and
he fell down without fenfe. He was carried home and
brought to himfelf. when he recolkaed very well the
^ V, O \74 n ft
35 I E [ 400 ] S L E
Slec|)- having been -awakened in the vineyard j bat nothing
wa'.ker. mQre< except the fright at being found there alone,
which had made him fvvoon.
“ After the fits he generally feels a degree of laffi-
tude : fometimes, though rarely, of indifpofition. At
the end of one of thofe fits, of which the gentlemen of
the committee were witneffes, he was affe&ed with vo¬
mitings •, but he is always foon reftored.
“ When he is awaked, he never for the moft part re-
colle&s any of the actions he has been doing during the
fit.
“ The fiibjeft of his dreams is circumfcribed in a
fmall circle ©f objects, that relate to the few ideas with
which at his age his mind is furnithed ; fuch as his lef-
fons, the church, the bells, and efpecialiy tales of ghofls.
It is fuflicient to ftrike his imagination the evening be¬
fore a fit with fome tale, to diredl his fomnambulifm to¬
wards the objeft of it. There wras read to him while in
this fituation the flory of a robber j he imagined the
very next moment that he faw robbers in the room.
However, as he is much difpofed to dream that he is
furrounded with them, it cannot be affirmed that this
was an effeft of the reading. It is obferved, that when
his fupper has been more plentiful than ufual, his dreams
are more difmal.
“ In their report, the gentlemen of the committee
dwell much on the Hate of this young man’s fenfes, on
the impreffion made upon them by ftrange objects, and
on the ufe they ars of to him.
“ A bit of firong fmelling wood produced in him a
degree of reftleffhefs ; the fingers had the fame effect,
whether from their fmell or their tranfpiration. He
knew wine in which there w'as wormwood by the fmell,
and faid that it wras not wine for his table. Metals
make no impreffion on him.
“ Having been preiented writh a little common wine
while he was in a ftate of apathy, and all his motions
wrere performed with languor, he drank of it willingly ;
but the irritation rvhich it occafioned produced a deal
of vivacity in all his words, motions, and a£tions, and
caufed him to make involuntary grimaces.
“ Once he was obferved dreffing himfelf in perfect
darknefs. ~ His clothes were on a large table, mixed
with thofe of fome other perfons •, he immediately per¬
ceived this, and complained of it much •, at lall a fmall
light was brought, and then he dreffed himfelf with
fufficient precifion. If he is leafed or gently pinched,
he is always fenfible of it, except he is at the time
ftrongly engroffed with fome other thing, and wiffies to
flrike the offender 5 however, he never attacks the per-
fon wTho has done the ill, but an ideal being whom his
imagination prefents to him, and whom he purfues
through the chamber without running againfl the furni¬
ture, nor can the perfons whom he meets in his way di¬
vert him from his purfuit.
“ While his imagination was employed on various
fubjedfs, he heard a clock flrike, which repeated at
every firoke the note of the cuckoo. There are cuc¬
koos here, faid he ; and, upon being defired, be imita¬
ted the fong of that bird immediately.
“ When he wifhes to fee an objedl, he makes an ef¬
fort to lift his eyelids j but they are fo little under his
command, that he can hardly raife them a line or two,
while he draws up his eyebrows $ the iris at that time
appears fixed, and his eye dim. When any thing is
3
prefented to him, and he is told of it, he always half Sleep-
opens his eyes with a degree of difficulty, and then fhuts walker,
them after he has taken what was offered to him.
“ The report infers from thefe fafts, and from many
others relative to the different ienfes, that their func¬
tions are not fufpended as to what the deep-walker willi¬
es to fee, that is, as to all thofe perceptions which ac¬
cord with the objefts about which his imagination is oc¬
cupied *, that he may alfo be difpofed to receive thofe
impreffions, when his imagination has no other objed at
the time ; that in order to fee, he is obliged to open
his eyes as much as he can, but when the impreffion is
once made, it remains} that obje&s may ftrike his
fight without ftriking his imagination, if it is not inte-
refted in them •, and that he is fometimes informed of the
prefence of obje&s without either feeing or touching
them.
“ Having engaged him to write a theme, fay the
committee, we faw him light a candle, take pen, ink,
and paper, from the drawer of his table, and begin to
write, while his mailer di&ated. As he was writing,
we put a thick paper before his eyes, notwithftanding
which he continued to write and to form his letters very
diftindlly 5 {bowing figns, however, that fomething was
incommoding him, which apparently proceeded from the
obftrudion which the paper, being held too near his
nofe, gave to his refpiration.
“ Upon another occafion, the young fomnambulift
arofe at five o’clock in the morning, and took the ne-
ceffary materials for writing, with his copy-book. He
meant to have begun at the top of a page ; but finding
it already written on, he came to the blank part of the
leaf, and wrote fome time from the following words,
Fiunt igjiari p'grit'ui—Us droiennent ignorans par la pa-
refje; and, what is remarkable, after feveral lineS he
perceived he had forgot the s in the word ignorans, and
had put erroneoufly a double r in parejje; he then gave
over writing, to add the s he had forgotten, and to erafe
the fuperfluous r.
“ Another time he had made, of his own accord, a
piece of writing, in order, as he faid, to pleafe his maf-
ter. It confifted of three kinds of writing, text, half
text, and fmall writ ; each of them performed with the
proper pen. He drew, in the corner of the fame pa¬
per, the figure of a hat ; he then afked for a penknife
to take out a blot of ink which he had made between
two letters, and he erafed it without injuring them.
Laftly, he made fome arithmetical calculations with great
accuracy.
“ In order to explain fome of the fa£ls obferved by
the academicians which we have here mentioned, they
ellablilh two general obfervations, which refult from
what they have faid with refpefl to the fenfes and the
dreams of this fleep-walker.
“ 1. That he is obliged to open his eyes, in order to
recognife obje£ls which he wifhes to fee ; but the im¬
preffion once made, although rapidly, is vivid enough
to fuperfede the neceffity of his opening them again, to
view the fame objeas anew ; that is, the fame objefts
are afterwards prefented to his imagination with as much
force and precifion as if he a&ually faw them.
“ 2. That his imagination, thus wTarmed, reprefents
to him objedls, and fuch as he figures to himfelf, with
as much vivacity as if he really faw them j and, laftly,
that all his fenfes, being fubordinate to his imagination,
feem
